### Build Product Names and Info



Build products are named using one of the following templates:

1. **sqlite\-**product**\-**version**.zip**- **sqlite\-**product**\-**version**.tar.gz**- **sqlite\-**product**\-**os**\-**cpu**\-**version**.zip**- **sqlite\-**product**\-**date**.zip**


Templates (1\) and (2\) are used for source\-code products. Template (1\) is
used for generic source\-code products and templates (2\) is used for source\-code
products that are generally only useful on unix\-like platforms. Template (3\)
is used for precompiled binaries products. Template (4\) is used for
unofficial pre\-release "snapshots" of source code.

The *version* is encoded so that filenames sort in order of
increasing version number when viewed using "ls". For version 3\.X.Y the
filename encoding is 3XXYY00\. For branch version 3\.X.Y.Z, the encoding is
3XXYYZZ.

The *date* in template (4\) is of the form: YYYYMMDDHHMM

For convenient, script\-driven extraction of the downloadable
file URLs and associated information, an HTML comment is embedded
in this page's source. Its first line (sans leading tag) reads:

> **Download product data for scripts to read**


Its subsequent lines comprise a CSV table with this column header:

> **PRODUCT,VERSION,RELATIVE\-URL,SIZE\-IN\-BYTES,SHA3\-HASH**


The column header and following data lines have no leading space.
The PRODUCT column is a constant value ("PRODUCT") for convenient
regular expression matching. Other columns are self\-explanatory.
This format will remain stable except for possible new columns
appended to the right of older columns.




