# 3\. Limitations And Caveats


1. The RETURNING clause is not available on DELETE and UPDATE statements
against [virtual tables](vtab.html).
This limitation might be removed in future versions of SQLite.
2. The RETURNING clause is only available in top\-level DELETE, INSERT,
and UPDATE statements. The RETURNING clause cannot be used by
statements within triggers.
3. Even though a DML statement with a RETURNING clause returns table content,
it cannot be used as a subquery. The RETURNING clause can only return
data to the application. It is not currently possible to divert the
RETURNING output into another table or query. PostgreSQL has the ability
to use a DML statement with a RETURNING clause like a view in a 
[common table expressions](lang_with.html). SQLite does not currently have that
ability, though that is something that might be added in a future release.
4. The rows emitted by the RETURNING clause appear in an arbitrary order.
That order might change depending on the database schema, upon the specific
release of SQLite used, or even from one execution of the same statement
to the next.
There is no way to cause the output rows to appear in a particular order.
Even if SQLite is compiled with the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UPDATE\_DELETE\_LIMIT](compile.html#enable_update_delete_limit)
option such that ORDER BY clauses are allowed on DELETE and UPDATE
statements, those ORDER BY clauses do not constrain the output order
of RETURNING.
5. The values emitted by the RETURNING clause are the values as seen
by the top\-level DELETE, INSERT, or UPDATE statement
and do not reflect any subsequent value changes made by [triggers](lang_createtrigger.html).
Thus, if the database includes AFTER triggers that modifies some
of the values of each row inserted or updated, the RETURNING clause
emits the original values that are computed before those triggers run.
6. The RETURNING clause may not contain top\-level [aggregate functions](lang_aggfunc.html) or
[window functions](windowfunctions.html). If there are subqueries in the RETURNING clause,
those subqueries may contain aggregates and window functions, but
aggregates cannot occur at the top level.
7. The RETURNING clause may only reference the table being modified.
In an [UPDATE FROM](lang_update.html#upfrom) statement, the auxiliary tables named in the FROM
clause may not participate in the RETURNING clause.


*This page last modified on [2024\-05\-08 20:36:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


