## Review Of The Benefits Of Using SQLite



In summary,
the claim of this essay is that using SQLite as a container for an application
file format like OpenDocument
and storing lots of smaller objects in that container
works out much better than using a ZIP archive holding a few larger objects.
To wit:

1. An SQLite database file is approximately the same size, and in some cases
smaller, than a ZIP archive holding the same information.

- The [atomic update capabilities](atomiccommit.html)
of SQLite allow small incremental changes
to be safely written into the document. This reduces total disk I/O
and improves File/Save performance, enhancing the user experience.

- Startup time is reduced by allowing the application to read in only the
content shown for the initial screen. This largely eliminates the
need to show a progress bar when opening a new document. The document
just pops up immediately, further enhancing the user experience.

- The memory footprint of the application can be dramatically reduced by
only loading content that is relevant to the current display and keeping
the bulk of the content on disk. The fast query capability of SQLite
make this a viable alternative to keeping all content in memory at all times.
And when applications use less memory, it makes the entire computer more
responsive, further enhancing the user experience.

- The schema of an SQL database is able to represent information more directly
and succinctly than a key/value database such as a ZIP archive. This makes
the document content more accessible to third\-party applications and scripts
and facilitates advanced features such as built\-in document versioning, and
incremental saving of work in progress for recovery after a crash.



These are just a few of the benefits of using SQLite as an application file
format — the benefits that seem most likely to improve the user
experience for applications like OpenOffice. Other applications might
benefit from SQLite in different ways. See the [Application File Format](appfileformat.html)
document for additional ideas.


Finally, let us reiterate that this essay is a thought experiment.
The OpenDocument format is well\-established and already well\-designed.
Nobody really believes that OpenDocument should be changed to use SQLite
as its container instead of ZIP. Nor is this article a criticism of
OpenDocument for not choosing SQLite as its container since OpenDocument
predates SQLite. Rather, the point of this article is to use OpenDocument
as a concrete example of how SQLite can be used to build better 
application file formats for future projects.


















































































