## SQLite Release 3\.5\.7 On 2008\-03\-17

1. Fix a bug (ticket \#2927\) in the register allocation for
compound selects \- introduced by the new VM code in version 3\.5\.5\.
2. ALTER TABLE uses double\-quotes instead of single\-quotes for quoting
filenames.
3. Use the WHERE clause to reduce the size of a materialized VIEW in
an UPDATE or DELETE statement. (Optimization)
4. Do not apply the flattening optimization if the outer query is an
aggregate and the inner query contains ORDER BY. (Ticket \#2943\)
5. Additional OS/2 updates
6. Added an experimental power\-of\-two, first\-fit memory allocator.
7. Remove all instances of sprintf() from the code
8. Accept "Z" as the zulu timezone at the end of date strings
9. Fix a bug in the LIKE optimizer that occurs when the last character
before the first wildcard is an upper\-case "Z"
10. Added the "bitvec" object for keeping track of which pages have
been journalled. Improves speed and reduces memory consumption, especially
for large database files.
11. Get the SQLITE\_ENABLE\_LOCKING\_STYLE macro working again on Mac OS X.
12. Store the statement journal in the temporary file directory instead of
collocated with the database file.
13. Many improvements and cleanups to the configure script



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


