# 1\. Amalgamation Versus Individual Source Files


SQLite is built from over one hundred files of C code and script
spread across multiple directories. The implementation of SQLite is pure
ANSI\-C, but many of the C\-language source code files are either
generated or transformed by auxiliary C programs and AWK, SED, and TCL
scripts prior to being incorporated into the finished SQLite library.
Building the necessary C programs and transforming and/or creating the
C\-language source code for SQLite is a complex process.


To simplify matters, SQLite is also available as a pre\-packaged
[amalgamation](amalgamation.html) source code file: **sqlite3\.c**. The amalgamation is
a single file of ANSI\-C code that implements the entire SQLite library.
The amalgamation is much easier to deal with. Everything is contained
within a single code file, so it is easy to drop into the source tree
of a larger C or C\+\+ program. All the code generation and transformation
steps have already been carried out so there are no auxiliary C programs
to configure and compile and no scripts to run. And, because the entire
library is contained in a single translation unit, compilers are able to
do more advanced optimizations resulting in a 5% to 10% performance
improvement. For these reasons, the amalgamation source file
("**sqlite3\.c**") is recommended for all applications.



> *The use of the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html) is recommended for all applications.*


Building SQLite directly from individual source code files is certainly
possible, but it is not recommended. For some specialized applications, it
might be necessary to modify the build process in ways that cannot be done
using just the prebuilt amalgamation source file downloaded from the website.
For those situations, it is recommended that a customized amalgamation be
built (as described [below](howtocompile.html#amal))
and used. In other words, even if a project requires building SQLite
beginning with individual source files, it is still recommended that an
amalgamation source file be used as an intermediate step.



