### Test Environment



The platform used for these tests is a 1\.6GHz Athlon with 1GB or memory
and an IDE disk drive. The operating system is RedHat Linux 7\.2 with
a stock kernel.




The PostgreSQL and MySQL servers used were as delivered by default on
RedHat 7\.2\. (PostgreSQL version 7\.1\.3 and MySQL version 3\.23\.41\.)
No effort was made to tune these engines. Note in particular
the default MySQL configuration on RedHat 7\.2 does not support
transactions. Not having to support transactions gives MySQL a
big speed advantage, but SQLite is still able to hold its own on most
tests.




I am told that the default PostgreSQL configuration in RedHat 7\.3
is unnecessarily conservative (it is designed to
work on a machine with 8MB of RAM) and that PostgreSQL could
be made to run a lot faster with some knowledgeable configuration
tuning.
Matt Sergeant reports that he has tuned his PostgreSQL installation
and rerun the tests shown below. His results show that
PostgreSQL and MySQL run at about the same speed. For Matt's
results, visit




> Obsolete URL: http://www.sergeant.org/sqlite\_vs\_pgsync.html



SQLite was tested in the same configuration that it appears
on the website. It was compiled with \-O6 optimization and with
the \-DNDEBUG\=1 switch which disables the many "assert()" statements
in the SQLite code. The \-DNDEBUG\=1 compiler option roughly doubles
the speed of SQLite.




All tests are conducted on an otherwise quiescent machine.
A simple Tcl script was used to generate and run all the tests.
A copy of this Tcl script can be found in the SQLite source tree
in the file **tools/speedtest.tcl**.




The times reported on all tests represent wall\-clock time
in seconds. Two separate time values are reported for SQLite.
The first value is for SQLite in its default configuration with
full disk synchronization turned on. With synchronization turned
on, SQLite executes
an **fsync()** system call (or the equivalent) at key points
to make certain that critical data has
actually been written to the disk drive surface. Synchronization
is necessary to guarantee the integrity of the database if the
operating system crashes or the computer powers down unexpectedly
in the middle of a database update. The second time reported for SQLite is
when synchronization is turned off. With synchronization off,
SQLite is sometimes much faster, but there is a risk that an
operating system crash or an unexpected power failure could
damage the database. Generally speaking, the synchronous SQLite
times are for comparison against PostgreSQL (which is also
synchronous) and the asynchronous SQLite times are for
comparison against the asynchronous MySQL engine.



