## SQLite Release 3\.45\.0 On 2024\-01\-15

1. Added the [SQLITE\_RESULT\_SUBTYPE](../c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqliteresultsubtype) property for
 [application\-defined SQL functions](../appfunc.html). 
 All application defined SQL functions that invokes
 [sqlite3\_result\_subtype()](../c3ref/result_subtype.html) must be registered with this new property.
 Failure to do so might cause the call to sqlite3\_result\_subtype() to
 behave as a no\-op. Compile with [\-DSQLITE\_STRICT\_SUBTYPE\=1](../compile.html#strict_subtype) to cause an
 SQL error to be raised if a function that is not [SQLITE\_RESULT\_SUBTYPE](../c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqliteresultsubtype)
 tries invokes [sqlite3\_result\_subtype()](../c3ref/result_subtype.html). The use of [\-DSQLITE\_STRICT\_SUBTYPE\=1](../compile.html#strict_subtype)
 is a recommended compile\-time option for every application that makes
 use of subtypes.
- Enhancements to the [JSON SQL functions](../json1.html):
	1. All JSON functions are rewritten to use a new internal parse tree
	 format called [JSONB](../json1.html#jsonbx). The new parse\-tree format is serializable 
	 and hence can be stored in the database to avoid unnecessary re\-parsing
	 whenever the JSON value is used.
	 - New versions of JSON\-generating functions generate binary JSONB instead
	 of JSON text.
	 - The [json\_valid()](../json1.html#jvalid) function adds an optional second argument that
	 specifies what it means for the first argument to be "well\-formed".- Add the [FTS5 tokendata option](../fts5.html#the_tokendata_option) to the [FTS5](../fts5.html) virtual table.
- The [SQLITE\_DIRECT\_OVERFLOW\_READ](../compile.html#direct_overflow_read) optimization is now enabled by default.
 Disable it at compile\-time using \-DSQLITE\_DIRECT\_OVERFLOW\_READ\=0\.
- Query planner improvements:
	1. Do not allow the transitive constraint optimization to trick the
	 query planner into using a range constraint when a better equality
	 constraint is available.
	 ([Forum post 2568d1f6e6](https://sqlite.org/forum/forumpost/2568d1f6e6).)
	 - The query planner now does a better job of disregarding
	 indexes that [ANALYZE](../lang_analyze.html) identifies as low\-quality.
	 ([Forum post 6f0958b03b](https://sqlite.org/forum/forumpost/6f0958b03b).)- Increase the default value for [SQLITE\_MAX\_PAGE\_COUNT](../limits.html#max_page_count) from 1073741824 to
 4294967294\.
- Enhancements to the [CLI](../cli.html):
	1. Improvements to the display of UTF\-8 content on Windows
	 - Automatically detect playback of ".dump" scripts and make appropriate
	 changes to settings such as ".dbconfig defensive off" and
	 ".dbconfig dqs\_dll on".**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2024\-01\-15 17:01:13 1066602b2b1976fe58b5150777cced894af17c803e068f5918390d6915b46e1d
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: f56d8e5e8c61d87b957f1cc60b3042c134d7bc0ca3aba002e6999e8f0af310a3



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


