## SQLite Release 3\.7\.14 On 2012\-09\-03

1. Drop built\-in support for OS/2\. If you need to upgrade an OS/2
 application to use this or a later version of SQLite,
 then add an application\-defined [VFS](../vfs.html) using the
 [sqlite3\_vfs\_register()](../c3ref/vfs_find.html) interface. The code removed in this release can
 serve as a baseline for the application\-defined VFS.
- Ensure that floating point values are preserved exactly when reconstructing
 a database from the output of the ".dump" command of the
 [command\-line shell](../cli.html).
- Added the [sqlite3\_close\_v2()](../c3ref/close.html) interface.
- Updated the [command\-line shell](../cli.html) so that it can be built using
 [SQLITE\_OMIT\_FLOATING\_POINT](../compile.html#omit_floating_point) and [SQLITE\_OMIT\_AUTOINIT](../compile.html#omit_autoinit).
- Improvements to the windows makefiles and build processes.
- Enhancements to [PRAGMA integrity\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_integrity_check) and [PRAGMA quick\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_quick_check) so that
 they can optionally check just a single attached database instead of all
 attached databases.
- Enhancements to [WAL mode](../wal.html) processing that ensure that at least one
 valid read\-mark is available at all times, so that read\-only processes
 can always read the database.
- Performance enhancements in the sorter used by ORDER BY and CREATE INDEX.
- Added the [SQLITE\_DISABLE\_FTS4\_DEFERRED](../compile.html#disable_fts4_deferred) compile\-time option.
- Better handling of aggregate queries where the aggregate functions are
 contained within subqueries.
- Enhance the query planner so that it will try to use a [covering index](../queryplanner.html#covidx)
 on queries that make use of [or optimization](../optoverview.html#or_opt).
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID:
 "2012\-09\-03 15:42:36 c0d89d4a9752922f9e367362366efde4f1b06f2a"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: 5fdf596b29bb426001f28b488ff356ae14d5a5a6



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


