## 1\.5\. The Freelist


A database file might contain one or more pages that are not in
active use. Unused pages can come about, for example, when information
is deleted from the database. Unused pages are stored on the freelist
and are reused when additional pages are required.


The freelist is organized as a linked list of freelist trunk pages
with each trunk page containing page numbers for zero or more freelist
leaf pages.


A freelist trunk page consists of an array of 4\-byte big\-endian integers.
The size of the array is as many integers as will fit in the usable space
of a page. The minimum usable space is 480 bytes so the array will always
be at least 120 entries in length. The first integer on a freelist trunk
page is the page number of the next freelist trunk page in the list or zero 
if this is the last freelist trunk page. The second integer on a freelist
trunk page is the number of leaf page pointers to follow. 
Call the second integer on a freelist trunk page L.
If L is greater than zero then integers with array indexes between 2 and
L\+1 inclusive contain page numbers for freelist leaf pages.


Freelist leaf pages contain no information. SQLite avoids reading or
writing freelist leaf pages in order to reduce disk I/O.


A bug in SQLite versions prior to 3\.6\.0 (2008\-07\-16\)
caused the database to be
reported as corrupt if any of the last 6 entries in the freelist trunk page 
array contained non\-zero values. Newer versions of SQLite do not have
this problem. However, newer versions of SQLite still avoid using the 
last six entries in the freelist trunk page array in order that database
files created by newer versions of SQLite can be read by older versions
of SQLite.


The number of freelist pages is stored as a 4\-byte big\-endian integer
in the database header at an offset of 36 from the beginning of the file.
The database header also stores the page number of the first freelist trunk
page as a 4\-byte big\-endian integer at an offset of 32 from the beginning
of the file.



