## 1\.8\. Pointer Map or Ptrmap Pages


Pointer map or ptrmap pages are extra pages inserted into the database
to make the operation of [auto\_vacuum](pragma.html#pragma_auto_vacuum) and [incremental\_vacuum](pragma.html#pragma_incremental_vacuum) modes
more efficient. Other page types in the database typically have pointers
from parent to child. For example, an interior b\-tree page contains pointers
to its child b\-tree pages and an overflow chain has a pointer
from earlier to later links in the chain. A ptrmap page contains linkage
information going in the opposite direction, from child to parent.


Ptrmap pages must exist in any database file which has a non\-zero
largest root b\-tree page value at offset 52 in the database header.
If the largest root b\-tree page value is zero, then the database must not
contain ptrmap pages.


In a database with ptrmap pages, the first ptrmap page is page 2\.
A ptrmap page consists of an array of 5\-byte entries. Let J be the
number of 5\-byte entries that will fit in the usable space of a page.
(In other words, J\=U/5\.) The first ptrmap page will contain back pointer
information for pages 3 through J\+2, inclusive. The second pointer map
page will be on page J\+3 and that ptrmap page will provide back pointer
information for pages J\+4 through 2\*J\+3 inclusive. And so forth for
the entire database file.


In a database that uses ptrmap pages, all pages at locations identified
by the computation in the previous paragraph must be ptrmap page and no
other page may be a ptrmap page. Except, if the byte\-lock page happens to
fall on the same page number as a ptrmap page, then the ptrmap is moved
to the following page for that one case.


Each 5\-byte entry on a ptrmap page provides back\-link information about 
one of the pages that immediately follow the pointer map. If page B is a
ptrmap page then back\-link information about page B\+1 is provided by
the first entry on the pointer map. Information about page B\+2 is
provided by the second entry. And so forth.


Each 5\-byte ptrmap entry consists of one byte of "page type" information
followed by a 4\-byte big\-endian page number. Five page types are recognized:



1. A b\-tree root page. The
page number should be zero.
2. A freelist page. The page number should be
zero.
3. The first page of a
cell payload overflow chain. The page number is the b\-tree page that
contains the cell whose content has overflowed.
4. A page in an overflow chain
other than the first page. The page number is the prior page of the
overflow chain.
5. A non\-root b\-tree page. The
page number is the parent b\-tree page.


In any database file that contains ptrmap pages, all b\-tree root pages 
must come before any non\-root b\-tree page, cell payload overflow page, or
freelist page. This restriction ensures that a root page will never
be moved during an auto\-vacuum or incremental\-vacuum. The auto\-vacuum
logic does not know how to update the root\_page field of the sqlite\_schema
table and so it is necessary to prevent root pages from being moved
during an auto\-vacuum in order to preserve the integrity of the
sqlite\_schema table. Root pages are moved to the beginning of the
database file by the CREATE TABLE, CREATE INDEX, DROP TABLE, and
DROP INDEX operations.


