### 2\.6\.4\. The sqlite\_stat1 table


The sqlite\_stat1 is an internal table created by the [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command
and used to hold supplemental information about tables and indexes that the
query planner can use to help it find better ways of performing queries.
Applications can update, delete from, insert into or drop the sqlite\_stat1
table, but may not create or alter the sqlite\_stat1 table.
The schema of the sqlite\_stat1 table is as follows:




> ```
> 
> CREATE TABLE sqlite_stat1(tbl,idx,stat);
> 
> ```


 There is normally one row per index, with the index identified by the
name in the sqlite\_stat1\.idx column. The sqlite\_stat1\.tbl column is
the name of the table to which the index belongs. In each such row, 
the sqlite\_stat.stat column will be
a string consisting of a list of integers followed by zero or more 
arguments. The first integer in this
list is the approximate number of rows in the index. (The number of
rows in the index is the same as the number of rows in the table,
except for [partial indexes](partialindex.html).)
The second integer is the approximate number of rows in the index
that have the same value in the first column of the index. The third 
integer is the number of rows in the index that have 
the same value for the first two columns. The N\-th integer (for N\>1\) 
is the estimated average number of rows in 
the index which have the same value for the first N\-1 columns. For
a K\-column index, there will be K\+1 integers in the stat column. If
the index is unique, then the last integer will be 1\.



The list of integers in the stat column can optionally be followed
by arguments, each of which is a sequence of non\-space characters.
All arguments are preceded by a single space.
Unrecognized arguments are silently ignored.



If the "unordered" argument is present, then the query planner assumes
that the index is unordered and will not use the index for a range query
or for sorting.



The "sz\=NNN" argument (where NNN represents a sequence of 1 or more digits)
means that the average row size over all records of the table or
index is NNN bytes per row. The SQLite query planner might use the
estimated row size information provided by the "sz\=NNN" token
to help it choose smaller tables and indexes that require less disk I/O.



The presence of the "noskipscan" token on the sqlite\_stat1\.stat field
of an index prevents that index from being used with the
[skip\-scan optimization](optoverview.html#skipscan).



New text tokens may be added to the end of the stat column in future
enhancements to SQLite. For compatibility, unrecognized tokens at the end
of the stat column are silently ignored.



If the sqlite\_stat1\.idx column is NULL, then the sqlite\_stat1\.stat
column contains a single integer which is the approximate number of
rows in the table identified by sqlite\_stat1\.tbl.
If the sqlite\_stat1\.idx column is the same as the sqlite\_stat1\.tbl
column, then the table is a [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) table and the sqlite\_stat1\.stat
field contains information about the index btree that implements the
WITHOUT ROWID table.




