# 2\. Details


If the UPDATE statement does not have a WHERE clause, all rows in the
table are modified by the UPDATE. Otherwise, the UPDATE affects only those
rows for which the WHERE clause
[boolean expression is true](lang_expr.html#booleanexpr). It is not an error if the
WHERE clause does not evaluate to true for any row in the table \- this just
means that the UPDATE statement affects zero rows.



The modifications made to each row affected by an UPDATE statement are
determined by the list of assignments following the SET keyword. Each
assignment specifies a column\-name to the left of the 
equals sign and a scalar expression to the right. 
For each affected row, the named columns
are set to the values found by evaluating the corresponding scalar 
expressions. If a single column\-name appears more than once in the list of
assignment expressions, all but the rightmost occurrence is ignored. Columns
that do not appear in the list of assignments are left unmodified. The scalar
expressions may refer to columns of the row being updated. In this case all
scalar expressions are evaluated before any assignments are made.



Beginning in SQLite [version 3\.15\.0](releaselog/3_15_0.html) (2016\-10\-14\), an assignment in
the SET clause can be a 
[parenthesized list of column names](syntax/column-name-list.html) on the left and a
[row value](rowvalue.html) of the same size on the right.




The optional "OR *action*" conflict clause that follows the
UPDATE keyword allows the user to nominate a specific
constraint conflict resolution algorithm to use during this one UPDATE command.
Refer to the section entitled [ON CONFLICT](lang_conflict.html) for additional information.



