## 2\.3\. Optional LIMIT and ORDER BY Clauses


If SQLite is built with the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UPDATE\_DELETE\_LIMIT](compile.html#enable_update_delete_limit)
compile\-time option then the syntax of the UPDATE statement is extended
with optional ORDER BY and LIMIT clauses as follows:


**[update\-stmt\-limited:](syntax/update-stmt-limited.html)**







WITH

RECURSIVE





common\-table\-expression






,








UPDATE






OR



ROLLBACK





qualified\-table\-name

OR



REPLACE






OR



IGNORE






OR



FAIL






OR



ABORT











SET



column\-name\-list



\=



expr



column\-name


,







FROM



table\-or\-subquery

,






join\-clause








WHERE



expr






returning\-clause





ORDER



BY



ordering\-term

,

LIMIT



expr



OFFSET



expr

,



expr




























If an UPDATE statement has a LIMIT clause, the maximum number of rows that
will be updated is found by evaluating the accompanying expression and casting
it to an integer value. A negative value is interpreted as "no limit".



If the LIMIT expression evaluates to non\-negative value *N* and the
UPDATE statement has an ORDER BY clause, then all rows that would be updated in
the absence of the LIMIT clause are sorted according to the ORDER BY and the
first *N* updated. If the UPDATE statement also has an OFFSET clause,
then it is similarly evaluated and cast to an integer value. If the OFFSET
expression evaluates to a non\-negative value *M*, then the first *M*
rows are skipped and the following *N* rows updated instead.



If the UPDATE statement has no ORDER BY clause, then all rows that
would be updated in the absence of the LIMIT clause are assembled in an
arbitrary order before applying the LIMIT and OFFSET clauses to determine 
which are actually updated.



The ORDER BY clause on an UPDATE statement is used only to determine which
rows fall within the LIMIT. The order in which rows are modified is arbitrary
and is not influenced by the ORDER BY clause.


*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


