# 5\. Operators


Mathematical operators (\+, \-, \*, /, %, \<\<, \>\>,
\&, and \|) interpret both operands as if they were numbers.
STRING or BLOB operands automatically convert into REAL or INTEGER values.
If the STRING or BLOB looks like a real number (if it has a decimal point
or an exponent) or if the value is outside the range that can be represented
as a 64\-bit signed integer, then it converts to REAL. Otherwise the operand
converts to INTEGER.
The implied type conversion of mathematical operands is slightly different
from [CAST to NUMERIC](lang_expr.html#castexpr) in that string and BLOB values that
look like real numbers but have no fractional part are kept as REAL
instead of being converted into INTEGER as they would be for [CAST to NUMERIC](lang_expr.html#castexpr).
The conversion from STRING or BLOB into REAL or INTEGER is performed
even if it is lossy and irreversible.
Some mathematical operators (%, \<\<, \>\>, \&, and \|) expect
INTEGER operands. For those operators, REAL operands are converted into INTEGER
in the same way as a [CAST to INTEGER](lang_expr.html#castexpr).
The \<\<, \>\>, \&, and \| operators always return an INTEGER (or NULL)
result, but the % operator returns either INTEGER or REAL (or NULL)
depending on the type of its operands.
A NULL operand on a mathematical operator yields a NULL result.
An operand on a mathematical operator that does not look in any way
numeric and is not NULL is converted to 0 or 0\.0\.
Division by zero gives a result of NULL.



