# 2\. Storage Classes and Datatypes


Each value stored in an SQLite database (or manipulated by the
database engine) has one of the following storage classes:


* **NULL**.
 The value is a NULL value.
* **INTEGER**. The value is a signed integer, stored in 0, 1,
 2, 3, 4, 6, or 8 bytes depending on the magnitude of the value.
* **REAL**. The value is a floating point value, stored as
 an 8\-byte IEEE floating point number.
* **TEXT**. The value is a text string, stored using the
 database encoding (UTF\-8, UTF\-16BE or UTF\-16LE).
* **BLOB**. The value is a blob of data, stored exactly as
 it was input.


A storage class is more general than a datatype.
The INTEGER storage class, for example, includes 7 different integer
datatypes of different lengths.
[This makes a difference on disk.](fileformat2.html#record_format) 
But as soon as INTEGER values are read off of disk and into memory for
processing, they are converted to the most general datatype
(8\-byte signed integer).
And so for the most part, "storage class" is indistinguishable from 
"datatype" and the two terms can be used interchangeably.


Any column in an SQLite version 3 database,
except an [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid) column, may be used to store a value 
of any storage class.


All values in SQL statements, whether they are literals embedded in SQL
statement text or [parameters](lang_expr.html#varparam) bound to 
[precompiled SQL statements](c3ref/stmt.html)
have an implicit storage class.
Under circumstances described below, the
database engine may convert values between numeric storage classes
(INTEGER and REAL) and TEXT during query execution. 




