# 2\. Recovery Using The ".recover" Command In The CLI



The easiest way to manually recover a corrupt database is using
the [Command Line Interface](cli.html) or "CLI" for SQLite. The CLI is a program
named "sqlite3". Use it to recover a corrupt database file using
a command similar to the following:




```
sqlite3 corrupt.db .recover >data.sql

```


This will generate SQL text in the file named "data.sql" that can be used
to reconstruct the original database:




```
sqlite3 recovered.db <data.sql

```


The ".recover" option is actually a command that is issued to the
CLI. That command can accept arguments. For example, by running:




```
sqlite3 corruptdb ".recover --ignore-freelist" >data.sql

```


Notice that the ".recover" command and its arguments must be contained
in quotes. The following options are supported:







> \-\-ignore\-freelist
> 
> Ignore pages of the database that appear to be part of the
> freelist. Normally the freelist is scanned, and if it contains
> pages that look like they have content, that content is output.
> But if the page really is on the freelist, that can mean that
> previously deleted information is reintroduced into the database.
> 
> 
> 
> \-\-lost\-and\-found *TABLE*
> 
> If content is found during recovery that cannot be associated
> with a particular table, it is put into the "lost\_and\_found"
> table. Use this option to change the name of the
> "lost\_and\_found" table to "TABLE".
> 
> 
> 
> \-\-no\-rowids
> 
> If this option is provided, then rowid values that are not also
> INTEGER PRIMARY KEY values are not extracted from the
> corrupt database.


