# 1\. Usage



The sqldiff.exe binary is a command\-line utility program that
displays content differences between SQLite databases. Example
usage:




```
sqldiff [options] database1.sqlite database2.sqlite

```


The usual output is an SQL script that will transform
database1\.sqlite (the "source" database) into database2\.sqlite
(the "destination" database). This behavior can be
altered using command\-line switches:




**\-\-changeset FILE**
Do not write changes to standard output. Instead, write a (binary)
 changeset file into FILE. The changeset can be interpreted using
 the [session extension](sessionintro.html) to SQLite.


**\-\-lib LIBRARY**
**\-L LIBRARY**
Load the shared library or DLL file LIBRARY into SQLite prior to
 computing the differences. This can be used to add application\-defined
 [collating sequences](datatype3.html#collation) that are required by the schema.


**\-\-primarykey**
Use the schema\-defined [PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#primkeyconst) instead of the [rowid](lang_createtable.html#rowid) to
 pair rows in the source and destination database. (See additional
 explanation below.)


**\-\-schema**
Show only column name and table differences in the schema,
 not the table content


**\-\-summary**
Show how many rows have changed on each table, but do not show
 the actual changes


**\-\-table TABLE**
Show only the differences in content for TABLE, not for the
 entire database


**\-\-transaction**
Wrap SQL output in a single large transaction


**\-\-vtab**
Add support for handling [FTS3](fts3.html), [FTS5](fts5.html) and [rtree](rtree.html) virtual tables.
 [See below](#sqldiff_vtab) for details.




