# 3\. Limitations


1. The sqldiff.exe utility does not compute changesets for
either: rowid tables for which the rowid is inaccessible;
or tables which have no explicit primary key.
Given the \-\-changeset option, sqldiff omits them from the comparison.
Examples of such tables are:




```
CREATE TABLE NilChangeset (
   -- inaccessible rowid due to hiding its aliases
   "rowid" TEXT,
   "oid" TEXT,
   "_rowid_" TEXT
);

```


and


```
CREATE TABLE NilChangeset (
   -- no explicit primary key
   "authorId" TEXT,
   "bookId" TEXT
);

```



When sqldiff is made to compare only such tables, no error occurs.
However, the result may be unexpected.
For example, the effect of this invocation:


```
sqldiff --changeset CHANGESET_OUT --table NilChangeset db1.sdb db2.sdb

```


will be to produce an empty file named "CHANGESET\_OUT". See [session limitations](sessionintro.html#limitations) for details.
2. The sqldiff.exe utility does not (currently) display differences in
[TRIGGERs](lang_createtrigger.html) or [VIEWs](lang_createview.html).
3. The sqldiff utility is not designed to support schema migrations
and is forgiving with respect to differing column definitions.
Normally, only the column names and their order are compared
for like\-named tables before content comparison proceeds.



However, the single\-table comparison option, with "sqlite\_schema"
named, can be used to show or detect detailed schema differences
between a pair of databases.
When doing this, the output should not be used directly to modify a database.
4. By default, differences in the schema or content of virtual tables are
not reported on.



However, if a [virtual table](vtab.html) implementation creates real tables (sometimes
referred to as "shadow" tables) within the database to store its data in, then
sqldiff.exe does calculate the difference between these. This can have
surprising effects if the resulting SQL script is then run on a database that
is not *exactly* the same as the source database. For several of SQLite's
bundled virtual tables (FTS3, FTS5, rtree and others), the surprising effects
may include corruption of the virtual table content.



 If the \-\-vtab option is passed to sqldiff.exe, then it ignores all
underlying shadow tables belonging to an FTS3, FTS5 or rtree virtual table
and instead includes the virtual table differences directly.


*This page last modified on [2023\-01\-06 00:45:39](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


