# 2\. Defining New SQL Functions



The [sqlite3\_create\_function()](c3ref/create_function.html) family of interfaces is used to create
new custom SQL functions. Each member of this family is a wrapper around
a common core. All family members accomplish the same thing; they merely
have different calling signatures.



* **[sqlite3\_create\_function()](c3ref/create_function.html)** →
The original version of sqlite3\_create\_function() allows the application
to create a single new SQL function that can be either a scalar or an
aggregate. The name of the function is specified using UTF8\.
* **[sqlite3\_create\_function16()](c3ref/create_function.html)** →
This variant works exactly like the sqlite3\_create\_function() original
except that the name of the function itself is specified as a UTF16
string rather than as a UTF8 string.
* **[sqlite3\_create\_function\_v2()](c3ref/create_function.html)** →
This variant works like the original sqlite3\_create\_function() except
that it includes an additional parameter that is a pointer to a
destructor for the [sqlite3\_user\_data()](c3ref/user_data.html) pointer that is passed in
as the 5th argument to all of the sqlite3\_create\_function() variants.
That destructor function (if it is non\-NULL) is called when the
custom function is deleted \- usually when the database connection is
closing.
* **[sqlite3\_create\_window\_function()](c3ref/create_function.html)** →
This variant works like the original sqlite3\_create\_function() except
that it accepts a different set of callback pointers \- the callback
pointers used by [window function](windowfunctions.html) definitions.


