## 2\.1\. Common Parameters


Many of the parameters passed to the [sqlite3\_create\_function()](c3ref/create_function.html)
family of interfaces are common across the entire family.



1. **db** →
The 1st parameter is always a pointer to the [database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html)
on which the custom SQL function will work. Custom SQL functions are
created separately for each database connection. There is no short\-hand
mechanism for creating SQL functions that work across all database
connections.
2. **zFunctionName** →
The 2nd parameter is the name of the SQL function that is being
created. The name is usually in UTF8, except that the name should
be in UTF16 in the native byte order for [sqlite3\_create\_function16()](c3ref/create_function.html).



The maximum length of a SQL function name is 255 bytes of UTF8\.
Any attempt to create a function with a longer name will result in
an [SQLITE\_MISUSE](rescode.html#misuse) error.



The SQL function creation interfaces may be called multiple
times with the same function name.
If two calls have the same function number but a different number of
arguments, for example, then two variants of the SQL function will
be registered, each taking a different number of arguments.
3. **nArg** →
The 3rd parameter is always the number of arguments that the function
accepts. The value must be an integer between \-1 and 
[SQLITE\_MAX\_FUNCTION\_ARG](limits.html#max_function_arg) (default value: 127\). A value of \-1 means
that the SQL function is a variadic function that can take any number
of arguments between 0 and [SQLITE\_MAX\_FUNCTION\_ARG](limits.html#max_function_arg).
4. **eTextRep** →
The 4th parameter is a 32\-bit integer flag whose bits convey various
properties about the new function. The original purpose of this
parameter was to specify the preferred text encoding for the function,
using one of the following constants:



	* [SQLITE\_UTF8](c3ref/c_any.html)
	* [SQLITE\_UTF16BE](c3ref/c_any.html)
	* [SQLITE\_UTF16LE](c3ref/c_any.html)
All custom SQL functions will accept text in any encoding. Encoding
conversions will happen automatically. The preferred encoding merely
specifies the encoding for which the function implementation is optimized.
It is possible to specify multiple functions with the same name and the
same number of arguments, but different preferred encodings and different
callbacks used to implement the function, and SQLite will chose the
set of callbacks for which the input encodings most closely match the
preferred encoding.

The 4th parameter as more recently be extended with additional flag bits
to convey additional information about the function. The additional
bits include:



	* [SQLITE\_DETERMINISTIC](c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqlitedeterministic)
	* [SQLITE\_DIRECTONLY](c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqlitedirectonly)
	* [SQLITE\_INNOCUOUS](c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqliteinnocuous)
	* [SQLITE\_SUBTYPE](c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqlitesubtype)
Additional bits may be added in future versions of SQLite.
5. **pApp** →
The 5th parameter is an arbitrary pointer that is passed through
into the callback routines. SQLite itself does nothing with this
pointer, except to make it available to the callbacks, and to pass
it into the destructor when the function is unregistered.


