## Overview



The best feature of SQL (in all its implementations, not just SQLite)
is that it is a *declarative* language, not a *procedural*
language. When programming in SQL you tell the system *what* you
want to compute, not *how* to compute it. The task of figuring out
the *how* is delegated to the *query planner* subsystem within 
the SQL database engine.


For any given SQL statement, there might be hundreds or thousands or
even millions of different algorithms of performing the operation. All
of these algorithms will get the correct answer, though some will run
faster than others.
The query planner is an 
[AI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence) that 
tries to pick the fastest and most efficient algorithm for each SQL
statement.




Most of the time, the query planner in SQLite does a good job.
However, the query planner needs indices to
work with. 
These indices must normally be added by programmers.
Rarely, the query planner AI will make a suboptimal algorithm
choice.
In those cases, programmers may want to provide additional
hints to help the query planner do a better job.




This document provides background information about how the
SQLite query planner and query engine work.
Programmers can use this information to help create better
indexes, and provide hints to help the query planner when
needed.




Additional information is provided in the
[SQLite query planner](optoverview.html) and 
[next generation query planner](queryplanner-ng.html) documents.




