# 2\. ALTER TABLE RENAME


 The RENAME TO syntax changes the name of table\-name
to new\-table\-name.
This command 
cannot be used to move a table between attached databases, only to rename 
a table within the same database.
If the table being renamed has triggers or indices, then these remain
attached to the table after it has been renamed.




> **Compatibility Note:**
> The behavior of ALTER TABLE when renaming a table was enhanced
> in versions 3\.25\.0 (2018\-09\-15\) and 3\.26\.0 (2018\-12\-01\)
> in order to carry the rename operation forward into triggers and
> views that reference the renamed table. This is considered an
> improvement. Applications that depend on the older (and
> arguably buggy) behavior can use the
> [PRAGMA legacy\_alter\_table\=ON](pragma.html#pragma_legacy_alter_table) statement or the
> [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_LEGACY\_ALTER\_TABLE](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfiglegacyaltertable) configuration parameter
> on [sqlite3\_db\_config()](c3ref/db_config.html) interface to make ALTER TABLE RENAME
> behave as it did prior to version 3\.25\.0\.



Beginning with release 3\.25\.0 (2018\-09\-15\), references to the table
within trigger bodies and view definitions are also renamed.



 Prior to version 3\.26\.0 (2018\-12\-01\), FOREIGN KEY references
to a table that is renamed were only edited if the
[PRAGMA foreign\_keys\=ON](pragma.html#pragma_foreign_keys), or in other words if
[foreign key constraints](foreignkeys.html) were being enforced. With
[PRAGMA foreign\_keys\=OFF](pragma.html#pragma_foreign_keys), FOREIGN KEY constraints would not be changed
when the table that the foreign key referred to (the "[parent table](foreignkeys.html#parentchild)")
was renamed. Beginning with version 3\.26\.0, FOREIGN KEY constraints
are always converted when a table is renamed, unless the
[PRAGMA legacy\_alter\_table\=ON](pragma.html#pragma_legacy_alter_table) setting is engaged. The following
table summarizes the difference:



> | PRAGMA foreign\_keys | PRAGMA legacy\_alter\_table | [Parent Table](foreignkeys.html#parentchild) references are updated | SQLite version |
> | --- | --- | --- | --- |
> | Off | Off | No | \< 3\.26\.0 |
> | Off | Off | Yes | \>\= 3\.26\.0 |
> | On | Off | Yes | all |
> | Off | On | No | all |
> | On | On | Yes | all |



