# 8\. Why ALTER TABLE is such a problem for SQLite


Most SQL database engines store the schema already parsed into
various system tables. On those database engines, ALTER TABLE merely 
has to make modifications to the corresponding system tables.



SQLite is different in that it stores the schema
in the [sqlite\_schema](schematab.html) table as the original text of the CREATE
statements that define the schema. Hence ALTER TABLE needs
to revise the text of the CREATE statement. Doing
so can be tricky for certain "creative" schema designs.



The SQLite approach of storing the schema as text has advantages
for an embedded relational database. For one, it means that the
schema takes up less space in the database file. This is important
since a common SQLite usage pattern is to have many small,
separate database files instead of putting everything in one
big global database file, which is the usual approach for client/server
database engines.
Since the schema is duplicated in each separate database file, it is
important to keep the schema representation compact.



Storing the schema as text rather than as parsed tables also
give flexibility to the implementation. Since the internal parse
of the schema is regenerated each time the database is opened, the
internal representation of the schema can change from one release
to the next. This is important, as sometimes new features require
enhancements to the internal schema representation. Changing the
internal schema representation would be much more difficult if the
schema representation was exposed in the database file. So, in other
words, storing the schema as text helps maintain backwards 
compatibility, and helps ensure that older database files can be
read and written by newer versions of SQLite.



Storing the schema as text also makes the 
[SQLite database file format](fileformat2.html) easier to define, document, and 
understand. This helps make SQLite database files a
[recommended storage format](locrsf.html) for long\-term archiving of data.



The downside of storing schema a text is that it can make
the schema tricky to modify. And for that reason, the ALTER TABLE
support in SQLite has traditionally lagged behind other SQL
database engines that store their schemas as parsed system tables
that are easier to modify.






*This page last modified on [2022\-08\-10 18:45:48](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


