# 3\. Virtual Table Details


Each row in the spellfix1 virtual table has a unique rowid 
with seven columns plus five extra hidden columns.
The columns are as follows:




**rowid**


A unique integer number associated with each
vocabulary item in the table. This can be used
as a foreign key on other tables in the database.

**word**


The text of the word that matches the pattern.
Both word and pattern can contain unicode characters
and can be mixed case.

**rank**


This is the rank of the word, as specified in the
original INSERT statement.


**distance**


This is an edit distance or Levenshtein distance going
from the pattern to the word.

**langid**


This is the language\-id of the word. All queries are
against a single language\-id, which defaults to 0\.
For any given query this value is the same on all rows.

**score**


The score is a combination of rank and distance. The
idea is that a lower score is better. The virtual table
attempts to find words with the lowest score and 
by default (unless overridden by ORDER BY) returns
results in order of increasing score.

**matchlen**


In a prefix search, the matchlen is the number of characters in
the string that match against the prefix. For a non\-prefix search,
this is the same as length(word).

**phonehash**


This column shows the phonetic hash prefix that was used to restrict
the search. For any given query, this column should be the same for
every row. This information is available for diagnostic purposes and
is not normally considered useful in real applications.

**top**


(HIDDEN) For any query, this value is the same on all
rows. It is an integer which is the maximum number of
rows that will be output. The actually number of rows
output might be less than this number, but it will never
be greater. The default value for top is 20, but that
can be changed for each query by including a term of
the form "top\=N" in the WHERE clause of the query.

**scope**


(HIDDEN) For any query, this value is the same on all
rows. The scope is a measure of how widely the virtual
table looks for matching words. Smaller values of
scope cause a broader search. The scope is normally
chosen automatically and is capped at 4\. Applications
can change the scope by including a term of the form
"scope\=N" in the WHERE clause of the query. Increasing
the scope will make the query run faster, but will reduce
the possible corrections.

**srchcnt**


(HIDDEN) For any query, this value is the same on all
rows. This value is an integer which is the number of
words examined using the edit\-distance algorithm to
find the top matches that are ultimately displayed. This
value is for diagnostic use only.

**soundslike**


(HIDDEN) When inserting vocabulary entries, this field
can be set to a spelling that matches what the word
sounds like. See the DEALING WITH UNUSUAL AND DIFFICULT
SPELLINGS section below for details.

**command**


(HIDDEN) The value of the "command" column is always NULL. However,
applications can insert special strings into the "command" column in order
to provoke certain behaviors in the spellfix1 virtual table.
For example, inserting the string 'reset' into the "command" column
will cause the virtual table to reread its edit distance weights
(if there are any).

