# 6\. Dealing With Unusual And Difficult Spellings


The algorithm above works quite well for most cases, but there are
exceptions. These exceptions can be dealt with by making additional
entries in the virtual table using the "soundslike" column.



For example, many words of Greek origin begin with letters "ps" where
the "p" is silent. Ex: psalm, pseudonym, psoriasis, psyche. In
another example, many Scottish surnames can be spelled with an
initial "Mac" or "Mc". Thus, "MacKay" and "McKay" are both pronounced
the same.



Accommodation can be made for words that are not spelled as they
sound by making additional entries into the virtual table for the
same word, but adding an alternative spelling in the "soundslike"
column. For example, the canonical entry for "psalm" would be this:




> ```
> 
>   INSERT INTO demo(word) VALUES('psalm');
> 
> ```


To enhance the ability to correct the spelling of "salm" into
"psalm", make an addition entry like this:




> ```
> 
>   INSERT INTO demo(word,soundslike) VALUES('psalm','salm');
> 
> ```


It is ok to make multiple entries for the same word as long as
each entry has a different soundslike value. Note that if no
soundslike value is specified, the soundslike defaults to the word
itself.



Listed below are some cases where it might make sense to add additional
soundslike entries. The specific entries will depend on the application
and the target language.



* Silent "p" in words beginning with "ps": psalm, psyche
* Silent "p" in words beginning with "pn": pneumonia, pneumatic
* Silent "p" in words beginning with "pt": pterodactyl, ptolemaic
* Silent "d" in words beginning with "dj": djinn, Djikarta
* Silent "k" in words beginning with "kn": knight, Knuthson
* Silent "g" in words beginning with "gn": gnarly, gnome, gnat
* "Mac" versus "Mc" beginning Scottish surnames
* "Tch" sounds in Slavic words: Tchaikovsky vs. Chaykovsky
* The letter "j" pronounced like "h" in Spanish: LaJolla
* Words beginning with "wr" versus "r": write vs. rite
* Miscellaneous problem words such as "debt", "tsetse",
 "Nguyen", "Van Nuyes".


