# 7\. Auxiliary Functions


The source code module that implements the spellfix1 virtual table also
implements several SQL functions that might be useful to applications
that employ spellfix1 or for testing or diagnostic work while developing
applications that use spellfix1\. The following auxiliary functions are
available:




**editdist3(P,W)  
editdist3(P,W,L)  
editdist3(T)**


These routines provide direct access to the version of the Wagner
edit\-distance function that allows for application\-defined weights
on edit operations. The first two forms of this function compare
pattern P against word W and return the edit distance. In the first
function, the langid is assumed to be 0 and in the second, the
langid is given by the L parameter. The third form of this function
reloads edit distance coefficients from the table named by T.

**spellfix1\_editdist(P,W)**


This routine provides access to the built\-in Wagner edit\-distance
function that uses default, fixed costs. The value returned is
the edit distance needed to transform W into P.

**spellfix1\_phonehash(X)**


This routine constructs a phonetic hash of the pure ascii input word X
and returns that hash. This routine is used internally by spellfix1 in
order to transform the K1 column of the shadow table into the K2
column.

**spellfix1\_scriptcode(X)**


Given an input string X, this routine attempts to determine the dominant
script of that input and returns the ISO\-15924 numeric code for that
script. The current implementation understands the following scripts:
* 215 \- Latin
* 220 \- Cyrillic
* 200 \- Greek


Additional language codes might be added in future releases.

**spellfix1\_translit(X)**


This routine transliterates unicode text into pure ascii, returning
the pure ascii representation of the input text X. This is the function
that is used internally to transform vocabulary words into the K1
column of the shadow table.



