### 2\.2\.1\. Frame Type



There are three frame types: ROWS, GROUPS, and RANGE.
The frame type determines how the starting and ending boundaries
of the frame are measured.



* **ROWS**:
The ROWS frame type means that the starting and ending boundaries
for the frame are determined by counting individual rows relative
to the current row.
* **GROUPS**:
The GROUPS frame type means that the starting and ending boundaries
are determine by counting "groups" relative to the current group.
A "group" is a set of rows that all have equivalent values for all
all terms of the window ORDER BY clause. ("Equivalent" means that
the [IS operator](lang_expr.html#isisnot) is true when comparing the two values.)
In other words, a group consists of all peers of a row.
* **RANGE**:
The RANGE frame type requires that the ORDER BY clause of the
window have exactly one term. Call that term "X". With the
RANGE frame type, the elements of the frame are determined by
computing the value of expression X for all rows in the partition
and framing those rows for which the value of X is within a certain
range of the value of X for the current row. See the description
in the "[\<expr\> PRECEDING](windowfunctions.html#exprrange)" boundary
specification below for details.


The ROWS and GROUPS frame types are similar in that they
both determine the extent of a frame by counting relative to
the current row. The difference is that ROWS counts individual
rows and GROUPS counts peer groups.
The RANGE frame type is different.
The RANGE frame type determines the extent of a frame by
looking for expression values that are within some band of
values relative to the current row.




