### 2\.2\.2\. Frame Boundaries


 There are five ways to describe starting and ending frame boundaries:



1. **UNBOUNDED PRECEDING**  

 The frame boundary is the first
 row in the [partition](windowfunctions.html#ptxn).
2. **\<expr\> PRECEDING**  

 \<expr\> must be a non\-negative constant numeric expression.
 The boundary is a row that is \<expr\> "units" prior to
 the current row. The meaning of "units" here depends on the
 frame type:
 


	* **ROWS →**
	 The frame boundary is the row that is \<expr\>
	 rows before the current row, or the first row of the
	 partition if there are fewer than \<expr\> rows
	 before the current row. \<expr\> must be an integer.
	* **GROUPS →**
	 A "group" is a set of peer rows \- rows that all have
	 the same values for every term in the ORDER BY clause.
	 The frame boundary is the group that is \<expr\>
	 groups before the group containing the current row, or the
	 first group of the partition if there are fewer
	 than \<expr\> groups before the current row.
	 For the starting boundary of a frame, the first
	 row of the group is used and for the ending boundary
	 of a frame, the last row of the group is used.
	 \<expr\> must be an integer.
	* **RANGE →**
	 For this form, the ORDER BY clause of the
	 window\-defn must have a single
	 term. Call that ORDER BY term "X". Let
	 Xi be the value of the X
	 expression for the i\-th row in the partition and let
	 Xc be the value of X for the
	 current row. Informally, a RANGE bound is the first row
	 for which Xi is within
	 the \<expr\> of Xc.
	 More precisely:
	 
	
	
		1. If either Xi or
		 Xc are non\-numeric, then
		 the boundary is the first row for which the expression
		 "Xi IS Xc"
		 is true.
		2. Else if the ORDER BY is ASC then the boundary
		 is the first row for which
		 Xi\>\=Xc\-\<expr\>.
		3. Else if the ORDER BY is DESC then the boundary
		 is the first row for which
		 Xi\<\=Xc\+\<expr\>.
	 For this form, the \<expr\> does not have to be an
	 integer. It can evaluate to a real number as long as
	 it is constant and non\-negative.
 The boundary description "0 PRECEDING" always means the same
 thing as "CURRENT ROW".
3. **CURRENT ROW**  

 The current row. For RANGE and GROUPS frame types,
 peers of the current row are also included in the frame,
 unless specifically excluded by the EXCLUDE clause.
 This is true regardless of whether CURRENT ROW is used
 as the starting or ending frame boundary.
4. **\<expr\> FOLLOWING**  

 This is the same as "\<expr\> PRECEDING" except that
 the boundary is \<expr\> units after the current
 rather than before the current row.
5. **UNBOUNDED FOLLOWING**  

 The frame boundary is the last
 row in the [partition](windowfunctions.html#ptxn).


 The ending frame boundary may not take a form that appears higher in
the above list than the starting frame boundary.



 In the following example, the window frame for each row consists of all
rows from the current row to the end of the set, where rows are sorted
according to "ORDER BY a".




```
-- The following SELECT statement returns:
-- 
--   c     | a | b | group_concat
---------------------------------
--   one   | 1 | A | A.D.G.C.F.B.E
--   one   | 4 | D | D.G.C.F.B.E 
--   one   | 7 | G | G.C.F.B.E   
--   three | 3 | C | C.F.B.E     
--   three | 6 | F | F.B.E       
--   two   | 2 | B | B.E         
--   two   | 5 | E | E           
-- 
SELECT c, a, b, group_concat(b, '.') OVER (
  ORDER BY c, a ROWS BETWEEN CURRENT ROW AND UNBOUNDED FOLLOWING
) AS group_concat
FROM t1 ORDER BY c, a;

```


