## Online Backup API.




> ```
> 
> sqlite3_backup *sqlite3_backup_init(
>   sqlite3 *pDest,                        /* Destination database handle */
>   const char *zDestName,                 /* Destination database name */
>   sqlite3 *pSource,                      /* Source database handle */
>   const char *zSourceName                /* Source database name */
> );
> int sqlite3_backup_step(sqlite3_backup *p, int nPage);
> int sqlite3_backup_finish(sqlite3_backup *p);
> int sqlite3_backup_remaining(sqlite3_backup *p);
> int sqlite3_backup_pagecount(sqlite3_backup *p);
> 
> ```



The backup API copies the content of one database into another.
It is useful either for creating backups of databases or
for copying in\-memory databases to or from persistent files.


See Also: [Using the SQLite Online Backup API](../backup.html)


SQLite holds a write transaction open on the destination database file
for the duration of the backup operation.
The source database is read\-locked only while it is being read;
it is not locked continuously for the entire backup operation.
Thus, the backup may be performed on a live source database without
preventing other database connections from
reading or writing to the source database while the backup is underway.


To perform a backup operation:
1. **sqlite3\_backup\_init()** is called once to initialize the
backup,
- **sqlite3\_backup\_step()** is called one or more times to transfer
the data between the two databases, and finally
- **sqlite3\_backup\_finish()** is called to release all resources
associated with the backup operation.


There should be exactly one call to sqlite3\_backup\_finish() for each
successful call to sqlite3\_backup\_init().



**sqlite3\_backup\_init()**


The D and N arguments to sqlite3\_backup\_init(D,N,S,M) are the
[database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) associated with the destination database
and the database name, respectively.
The database name is "main" for the main database, "temp" for the
temporary database, or the name specified after the AS keyword in
an [ATTACH](../lang_attach.html) statement for an attached database.
The S and M arguments passed to
sqlite3\_backup\_init(D,N,S,M) identify the [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html)
and database name of the source database, respectively.
The source and destination [database connections](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) (parameters S and D)
must be different or else sqlite3\_backup\_init(D,N,S,M) will fail with
an error.


A call to sqlite3\_backup\_init() will fail, returning NULL, if
there is already a read or read\-write transaction open on the
destination database.


If an error occurs within sqlite3\_backup\_init(D,N,S,M), then NULL is
returned and an error code and error message are stored in the
destination [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) D.
The error code and message for the failed call to sqlite3\_backup\_init()
can be retrieved using the [sqlite3\_errcode()](../c3ref/errcode.html), [sqlite3\_errmsg()](../c3ref/errcode.html), and/or
[sqlite3\_errmsg16()](../c3ref/errcode.html) functions.
A successful call to sqlite3\_backup\_init() returns a pointer to an
[sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object.
The [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object may be used with the sqlite3\_backup\_step() and
sqlite3\_backup\_finish() functions to perform the specified backup
operation.



**sqlite3\_backup\_step()**


Function sqlite3\_backup\_step(B,N) will copy up to N pages between
the source and destination databases specified by [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object B.
If N is negative, all remaining source pages are copied.
If sqlite3\_backup\_step(B,N) successfully copies N pages and there
are still more pages to be copied, then the function returns [SQLITE\_OK](../rescode.html#ok).
If sqlite3\_backup\_step(B,N) successfully finishes copying all pages
from source to destination, then it returns [SQLITE\_DONE](../rescode.html#done).
If an error occurs while running sqlite3\_backup\_step(B,N),
then an [error code](../rescode.html) is returned. As well as [SQLITE\_OK](../rescode.html#ok) and
[SQLITE\_DONE](../rescode.html#done), a call to sqlite3\_backup\_step() may return [SQLITE\_READONLY](../rescode.html#readonly),
[SQLITE\_NOMEM](../rescode.html#nomem), [SQLITE\_BUSY](../rescode.html#busy), [SQLITE\_LOCKED](../rescode.html#locked), or an
[SQLITE\_IOERR\_XXX](../rescode.html#ioerr_access) extended error code.


The sqlite3\_backup\_step() might return [SQLITE\_READONLY](../rescode.html#readonly) if
1. the destination database was opened read\-only, or
- the destination database is using write\-ahead\-log journaling
and the destination and source page sizes differ, or
- the destination database is an in\-memory database and the
destination and source page sizes differ.



If sqlite3\_backup\_step() cannot obtain a required file\-system lock, then
the [busy\-handler function](../c3ref/busy_handler.html)
is invoked (if one is specified). If the
busy\-handler returns non\-zero before the lock is available, then
[SQLITE\_BUSY](../rescode.html#busy) is returned to the caller. In this case the call to
sqlite3\_backup\_step() can be retried later. If the source
[database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html)
is being used to write to the source database when sqlite3\_backup\_step()
is called, then [SQLITE\_LOCKED](../rescode.html#locked) is returned immediately. Again, in this
case the call to sqlite3\_backup\_step() can be retried later on. If
[SQLITE\_IOERR\_XXX](../rescode.html#ioerr_access), [SQLITE\_NOMEM](../rescode.html#nomem), or
[SQLITE\_READONLY](../rescode.html#readonly) is returned, then
there is no point in retrying the call to sqlite3\_backup\_step(). These
errors are considered fatal. The application must accept
that the backup operation has failed and pass the backup operation handle
to the sqlite3\_backup\_finish() to release associated resources.


The first call to sqlite3\_backup\_step() obtains an exclusive lock
on the destination file. The exclusive lock is not released until either
sqlite3\_backup\_finish() is called or the backup operation is complete
and sqlite3\_backup\_step() returns [SQLITE\_DONE](../rescode.html#done). Every call to
sqlite3\_backup\_step() obtains a [shared lock](../lockingv3.html#shared_lock) on the source database that
lasts for the duration of the sqlite3\_backup\_step() call.
Because the source database is not locked between calls to
sqlite3\_backup\_step(), the source database may be modified mid\-way
through the backup process. If the source database is modified by an
external process or via a database connection other than the one being
used by the backup operation, then the backup will be automatically
restarted by the next call to sqlite3\_backup\_step(). If the source
database is modified by the using the same database connection as is used
by the backup operation, then the backup database is automatically
updated at the same time.



**sqlite3\_backup\_finish()**


When sqlite3\_backup\_step() has returned [SQLITE\_DONE](../rescode.html#done), or when the
application wishes to abandon the backup operation, the application
should destroy the [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) by passing it to sqlite3\_backup\_finish().
The sqlite3\_backup\_finish() interfaces releases all
resources associated with the [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object.
If sqlite3\_backup\_step() has not yet returned [SQLITE\_DONE](../rescode.html#done), then any
active write\-transaction on the destination database is rolled back.
The [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object is invalid
and may not be used following a call to sqlite3\_backup\_finish().


The value returned by sqlite3\_backup\_finish is [SQLITE\_OK](../rescode.html#ok) if no
sqlite3\_backup\_step() errors occurred, regardless or whether or not
sqlite3\_backup\_step() completed.
If an out\-of\-memory condition or IO error occurred during any prior
sqlite3\_backup\_step() call on the same [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object, then
sqlite3\_backup\_finish() returns the corresponding [error code](../rescode.html).


A return of [SQLITE\_BUSY](../rescode.html#busy) or [SQLITE\_LOCKED](../rescode.html#locked) from sqlite3\_backup\_step()
is not a permanent error and does not affect the return value of
sqlite3\_backup\_finish().




**sqlite3\_backup\_remaining() and sqlite3\_backup\_pagecount()**


The sqlite3\_backup\_remaining() routine returns the number of pages still
to be backed up at the conclusion of the most recent sqlite3\_backup\_step().
The sqlite3\_backup\_pagecount() routine returns the total number of pages
in the source database at the conclusion of the most recent
sqlite3\_backup\_step().
The values returned by these functions are only updated by
sqlite3\_backup\_step(). If the source database is modified in a way that
changes the size of the source database or the number of pages remaining,
those changes are not reflected in the output of sqlite3\_backup\_pagecount()
and sqlite3\_backup\_remaining() until after the next
sqlite3\_backup\_step().


**Concurrent Usage of Database Handles**


The source [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) may be used by the application for other
purposes while a backup operation is underway or being initialized.
If SQLite is compiled and configured to support threadsafe database
connections, then the source database connection may be used concurrently
from within other threads.


However, the application must guarantee that the destination
[database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) is not passed to any other API (by any thread) after
sqlite3\_backup\_init() is called and before the corresponding call to
sqlite3\_backup\_finish(). SQLite does not currently check to see
if the application incorrectly accesses the destination [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html)
and so no error code is reported, but the operations may malfunction
nevertheless. Use of the destination database connection while a
backup is in progress might also cause a mutex deadlock.


If running in [shared cache mode](../sharedcache.html), the application must
guarantee that the shared cache used by the destination database
is not accessed while the backup is running. In practice this means
that the application must guarantee that the disk file being
backed up to is not accessed by any connection within the process,
not just the specific connection that was passed to sqlite3\_backup\_init().


The [sqlite3\_backup](../c3ref/backup.html) object itself is partially threadsafe. Multiple
threads may safely make multiple concurrent calls to sqlite3\_backup\_step().
However, the sqlite3\_backup\_remaining() and sqlite3\_backup\_pagecount()
APIs are not strictly speaking threadsafe. If they are invoked at the
same time as another thread is invoking sqlite3\_backup\_step() it is
possible that they return invalid values.


See also lists of
 [Objects](../c3ref/objlist.html),
 [Constants](../c3ref/constlist.html), and
 [Functions](../c3ref/funclist.html).


