# 1\. Overview



The DBSTAT virtual table is a read\-only [eponymous virtual table](vtab.html#epovtab) that returns
information about the amount of disk space used to store the content
of an SQLite database.
Example use cases for the
DBSTAT virtual table include the [sqlite3\_analyzer.exe](sqlanalyze.html)
utility program and the
[table size pie\-chart](https://www.sqlite.org/src/repo-tabsize) in
the [Fossil\-implemented](https://www.fossil-scm.org/) version control system
for SQLite.




The DBSTAT virtual table is available on all 
[database connections](c3ref/sqlite3.html) when SQLite is built using the
[SQLITE\_ENABLE\_DBSTAT\_VTAB](compile.html#enable_dbstat_vtab) compile\-time option.




The DBSTAT virtual table is an [eponymous virtual table](vtab.html#epovtab), meaning
that is not necessary to run [CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE](lang_createvtab.html) to create an
instance of the dbstat virtual table before using it. The "dbstat"
module name can be used as if it were a table name to query the
dbstat virtual table directly. For example:




```
SELECT * FROM dbstat;

```


If a named virtual table that uses the dbstat module is desired,
then the recommended way to create an instance of the dbstat
virtual table is as follows:




```
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE temp.stat USING dbstat(main);

```


Note the "temp." qualifier before the virtual table name ("stat"). This
qualifier causes the virtual table to be temporary \- to only exist for
the duration of the current database connection. This is the
recommended approach.




The "main" argument to dbstat is default schema
for which information is to be provided. The default is "main", and
so the use of "main" in the example above is redundant. For any
particular query, the schema can be changed by specifying the
alternative schema as a function argument to the virtual table
name in the FROM clause of the query. (See further discussion of
[table\-valued functions in the FROM clause](lang_select.html#tabfunc1) for more details.)




The schema for the DBSTAT virtual table looks like this:



```
CREATE TABLE dbstat(
  name       TEXT,        -- Name of table or index
  path       TEXT,        -- Path to page from root
  pageno     INTEGER,     -- Page number, or page count
  pagetype   TEXT,        -- 'internal', 'leaf', 'overflow', or NULL
  ncell      INTEGER,     -- Cells on page (0 for overflow pages)
  payload    INTEGER,     -- Bytes of payload on this page or btree
  unused     INTEGER,     -- Bytes of unused space on this page or btree
  mx_payload INTEGER,     -- Largest payload size of all cells on this row
  pgoffset   INTEGER,     -- Byte offset of the page in the database file
  pgsize     INTEGER,     -- Size of the page, in bytes
  schema     TEXT HIDDEN, -- Database schema being analyzed
  aggregate  BOOL HIDDEN  -- True to enable aggregate mode
);

```


The DBSTAT table only reports on the content of btrees within the database file.
Freelist pages, pointer\-map pages, and the lock page are omitted from
the analysis.




By default, there is a single row in the DBSTAT table for each
btree page the database file. Each row provides
information about the space utilization of that one page of the
database. However, if the hidden column "aggregate" is TRUE, then
results are aggregated and there is a single row in the DBSTAT table
for each btree in the database, providing information about space
utilization across the entire btree.




