# 3\. The SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE Compile\-Time Parameter and Pragma



The temporary files associated with transaction control, namely
the rollback journal, super\-journal, write\-ahead log (WAL) files,
and shared\-memory files, are always written to disk.
But the other kinds of temporary files might be stored in memory
only and never written to disk.
Whether or not temporary files other than the rollback,
super, and statement journals are written to disk or stored only in memory
depends on the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter, the
[temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store),
and on the size of the temporary file.




The [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter is a \#define whose value is
an integer between 0 and 3, inclusive. The meaning of the
[SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter is as follows:



1. Temporary files are always stored on disk regardless of the setting
of the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).
2. Temporary files are stored on disk by default but this can be
overridden by the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).
3. Temporary files are stored in memory by default but this can be
overridden by the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).
4. Temporary files are always stored in memory regardless of the setting
of the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).



The default value of the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter is 1,
which means to store temporary files on disk but provide the option
of overriding the behavior using the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).




The [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store) has
an integer value which also influences the decision of where to store
temporary files. The values of the temp\_store pragma have the
following meanings:



1. Use either disk or memory storage for temporary files as determined
by the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter.
2. If the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter specifies memory storage for
temporary files, then override that decision and use disk storage instead.
Otherwise follow the recommendation of the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time
parameter.
3. If the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter specifies disk storage for
temporary files, then override that decision and use memory storage instead.
Otherwise follow the recommendation of the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time
parameter.



The default setting for the [temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store) is 0,
which means to following the recommendation of [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time
parameter.




To reiterate, the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter and the 
[temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store) only
influence the temporary files other than the rollback journal
and the super\-journal. The rollback journal and the
super\-journal are always written to disk regardless of the settings of
the [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store) compile\-time parameter and the
[temp\_store pragma](pragma.html#pragma_temp_store).




