## 2\.1\. Syntax Restrictions On UPDATE, DELETE, and INSERT Statements Within
 Triggers


The [UPDATE](lang_update.html), [DELETE](lang_delete.html), and [INSERT](lang_insert.html)
statements within triggers do not support
the full syntax for [UPDATE](lang_update.html), [DELETE](lang_delete.html), and [INSERT](lang_insert.html) statements. The following
restrictions apply:


* The name of the table to be modified in an [UPDATE](lang_update.html), [DELETE](lang_delete.html), or [INSERT](lang_insert.html)
 statement must be an unqualified table name. In other words, one must
 use just "*tablename*" not "*database***.***tablename*"
 when specifying the table.
* For non\-TEMP triggers,
 the table to be modified or queried must exist in the
 same database as the table or view to which the trigger is attached.
 TEMP triggers are not subject to the same\-database rule. A TEMP
 trigger is allowed to query or modify any table in any [ATTACH](lang_attach.html)\-ed database.
* The "INSERT INTO *table* DEFAULT VALUES" form of the [INSERT](lang_insert.html) statement
 is not supported.
* The INDEXED BY and NOT INDEXED clauses are not supported for [UPDATE](lang_update.html) and
 [DELETE](lang_delete.html) statements.
* The ORDER BY and LIMIT clauses on [UPDATE](lang_update.html) and [DELETE](lang_delete.html) statements are not
 supported. ORDER BY and LIMIT are not normally supported for [UPDATE](lang_update.html) or
 [DELETE](lang_delete.html) in any context but can be enabled for top\-level statements
 using the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UPDATE\_DELETE\_LIMIT](compile.html#enable_update_delete_limit) compile\-time option. However,
 that compile\-time option only applies to top\-level [UPDATE](lang_update.html) and [DELETE](lang_delete.html)
 statements, not [UPDATE](lang_update.html) and [DELETE](lang_delete.html) statements within triggers.
* [Common table expression](syntax/common-table-expression.html) are not supported for
 statements inside of triggers.



