## SQLite Release 3\.12\.0 On 2016\-03\-29

**Potentially Disruptive Change:**
- The [SQLITE\_DEFAULT\_PAGE\_SIZE](../compile.html#default_page_size) is increased from 1024 to 4096\.
 The [SQLITE\_DEFAULT\_CACHE\_SIZE](../compile.html#default_cache_size) is changed from 2000 to \-2000 so
 the same amount of cache memory is used by default.
 See the application note on the
 [version 3\.12\.0 page size change](../pgszchng2016.html) for further information.
**Performance enhancements:**
- Enhancements to the [Lemon parser generator](../lemon.html)
 so that it creates a smaller and faster SQL parser.
- Only create [master journal](../tempfiles.html#superjrnl) files if two or more attached databases are all
 modified, do not have [PRAGMA synchronous](../pragma.html#pragma_synchronous) set to OFF, and
 do not have the [journal\_mode](../pragma.html#pragma_journal_mode) set to OFF, MEMORY, or WAL.
- Only create [statement journal](../tempfiles.html#stmtjrnl) files when their size exceeds a threshold.
 Otherwise the journal is held in memory and no I/O occurs. The threshold
 can be configured at compile\-time using [SQLITE\_STMTJRNL\_SPILL](../compile.html#stmtjrnl_spill) or at
 start\-time using [sqlite3\_config](../c3ref/config.html)([SQLITE\_CONFIG\_STMTJRNL\_SPILL](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigstmtjrnlspill)).
- The query planner is able to optimize IN operators on [virtual tables](../vtab.html)
 even if the [xBestIndex](../vtab.html#xbestindex) method does not set the
 sqlite3\_index\_constraint\_usage.omit flag of the
 virtual table column to the left of the IN operator.
- The query planner now does a better job of optimizing [virtual table](../vtab.html)
 accesses in a 3\-way or higher join where constraints on the virtual
 table are split across two or more other tables of the join.
- More efficient handling of [application\-defined SQL functions](../appfunc.html), especially
 in cases where the application defines hundreds or thousands of
 custom functions.
- The query planner considers the LIMIT clause when estimating the cost
 of ORDER BY.
- The configure script (on unix) automatically detects
 pread() and pwrite() and sets compile\-time options to use those OS
 interfaces if they are available.
- Reduce the amount of memory needed to hold the schema.
- Other miscellaneous micro\-optimizations for improved performance and reduced
 memory usage.
**New Features:**
- Added the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_TOKENIZER](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigenablefts3tokenizer) option to [sqlite3\_db\_config()](../c3ref/db_config.html)
 which allows the two\-argument version of the [fts3\_tokenizer()](../fts3.html#f3tknzr) SQL function to
 be enabled or disabled at run\-time.
- Added the [sqlite3rbu\_bp\_progress()](https://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact/d7cc99350?ln=403-443)
 interface to the [RBU](../rbu.html) extension.
- The [PRAGMA defer\_foreign\_keys\=ON](../pragma.html#pragma_defer_foreign_keys) statement now also disables
 [RESTRICT actions](../foreignkeys.html#fk_actions) on foreign key.
- Added the [sqlite3\_system\_errno()](../c3ref/system_errno.html) interface.
- Added the [SQLITE\_DEFAULT\_SYNCHRONOUS](../compile.html#default_synchronous) and [SQLITE\_DEFAULT\_WAL\_SYNCHRONOUS](../compile.html#default_wal_synchronous)
 compile\-time options. The [SQLITE\_DEFAULT\_SYNCHRONOUS](../compile.html#default_synchronous) compile\-time option
 replaces the [SQLITE\_EXTRA\_DURABLE](../compile.html#extra_durable) option, which is no longer supported.
- Enhanced the ".stats" command in the [command\-line shell](../cli.html) to show more
 information about I/O performance obtained from /proc, when available.
**Bug fixes:**
- Make sure the [sqlite3\_set\_auxdata()](../c3ref/get_auxdata.html) values from multiple triggers
 within a single statement do not interfere with one another.
 Ticket [dc9b1c91](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/dc9b1c91).
- Fix the code generator for expressions of the form "x IN (SELECT...)" where
 the SELECT statement on the RHS is a correlated subquery.
 Ticket [5e3c886796e5512e](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/5e3c886796e5512e).
- Fix a harmless TSAN warning associated with the [sqlite3\_db\_readonly()](../c3ref/db_readonly.html) interface.
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2016\-03\-29 10:14:15 e9bb4cf40f4971974a74468ef922bdee481c988b"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: cba2be96d27cb51978cd4a200397a4ad178986eb





A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


