# 2\. Why Isn't SQLite Coded In An Object\-Oriented Language?



Some programmers cannot imagine developing a complex system like
SQLite in a language that is not "object oriented". So why is
SQLite not coded in C\+\+ or Java?



1. Libraries written in C\+\+ or Java can generally only be used by
applications written in the same language. It is difficult to
get an application written in Haskell or Java to invoke a library
written in C\+\+. On the other hand, libraries written in C are
callable from any programming language.
2. Object\-Oriented is a design pattern, not a programming language.
You can do object\-oriented programming in any language you want,
including assembly language. Some languages (ex: C\+\+ or Java) make
object\-oriented easier. But you can still do object\-oriented programming
in languages like C.
3. Object\-oriented is not the only valid design pattern.
Many programmers have been taught to think purely in terms of
objects. And, to be fair, objects are often a good way to
decompose a problem. But objects are not the only way, and are
not always the best way to decompose a problem. Sometimes good old
procedural code is easier to write, easier to maintain and understand,
and faster than object\-oriented code.
4. When SQLite was first being developed, Java was a young and immature
language. C\+\+ was older, but was undergoing such growing pains that
it was difficult to find any two C\+\+ compilers that worked the same
way. So C was definitely a better choice back when SQLite was first
being developed. The situation is less stark now, but there is little
to no benefit in recoding SQLite at this point.


