## Query Progress Callbacks




> ```
> 
> void sqlite3_progress_handler(sqlite3*, int, int(*)(void*), void*);
> 
> ```



The sqlite3\_progress\_handler(D,N,X,P) interface causes the callback
function X to be invoked periodically during long running calls to
[sqlite3\_step()](../c3ref/step.html) and [sqlite3\_prepare()](../c3ref/prepare.html) and similar for
database connection D. An example use for this
interface is to keep a GUI updated during a large query.


The parameter P is passed through as the only parameter to the
callback function X. The parameter N is the approximate number of
[virtual machine instructions](../opcode.html) that are evaluated between successive
invocations of the callback X. If N is less than one then the progress
handler is disabled.


Only a single progress handler may be defined at one time per
[database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html); setting a new progress handler cancels the
old one. Setting parameter X to NULL disables the progress handler.
The progress handler is also disabled by setting N to a value less
than 1\.


If the progress callback returns non\-zero, the operation is
interrupted. This feature can be used to implement a
"Cancel" button on a GUI progress dialog box.


The progress handler callback must not do anything that will modify
the database connection that invoked the progress handler.
Note that [sqlite3\_prepare\_v2()](../c3ref/prepare.html) and [sqlite3\_step()](../c3ref/step.html) both modify their
database connections for the meaning of "modify" in this paragraph.


The progress handler callback would originally only be invoked from the
bytecode engine. It still might be invoked during [sqlite3\_prepare()](../c3ref/prepare.html)
and similar because those routines might force a reparse of the schema
which involves running the bytecode engine. However, beginning with
SQLite version 3\.41\.0, the progress handler callback might also be
invoked directly from [sqlite3\_prepare()](../c3ref/prepare.html) while analyzing and generating
code for complex queries.


See also lists of
 [Objects](../c3ref/objlist.html),
 [Constants](../c3ref/constlist.html), and
 [Functions](../c3ref/funclist.html).


