# 3\. Optional LIMIT and ORDER BY clauses


If SQLite is compiled with the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UPDATE\_DELETE\_LIMIT](compile.html#enable_update_delete_limit)
compile\-time option, then the syntax of the DELETE statement is
extended by the addition of optional ORDER BY and LIMIT clauses:


**[delete\-stmt\-limited:](syntax/delete-stmt-limited.html)**







WITH

RECURSIVE





common\-table\-expression






,




DELETE



FROM



qualified\-table\-name






WHERE



expr

returning\-clause

ORDER



BY



ordering\-term

,

LIMIT



expr



OFFSET



expr

,



expr












































If a DELETE statement has a LIMIT clause, the maximum number of rows that
will be deleted is found by evaluating the accompanying expression and casting
it to an integer value. If the result of the evaluating the LIMIT clause
cannot be losslessly converted to an integer value, it is an error. A 
negative LIMIT value is interpreted as "no limit". If the DELETE statement 
also has an OFFSET clause, then it is similarly evaluated and cast to an
integer value. Again, it is an error if the value cannot be losslessly
converted to an integer. If there is no OFFSET clause, or the calculated
integer value is negative, the effective OFFSET value is zero.



If the DELETE statement has an ORDER BY clause, then all rows that would 
be deleted in the absence of the LIMIT clause are sorted according to the 
ORDER BY. The first *M* rows, where *M* is the value found by
evaluating the OFFSET clause expression, are skipped, and the following 
*N*, where *N* is the value of the LIMIT expression, are deleted.
If there are less than *N* rows remaining after taking the OFFSET clause
into account, or if the LIMIT clause evaluated to a negative value, then all
remaining rows are deleted.



If the DELETE statement has no ORDER BY clause, then all rows that
would be deleted in the absence of the LIMIT clause are assembled in an
arbitrary order before applying the LIMIT and OFFSET clauses to determine 
the subset that are actually deleted.



The ORDER BY clause on a DELETE statement is used only to determine which
rows fall within the LIMIT. The order in which rows are deleted is arbitrary
and is not influenced by the ORDER BY clause.
This means that if there is a [RETURNING clause](lang_returning.html), the rows returned by
the statement probably will not be in the order specified by the
ORDER BY clause.




