# 2\. Interface Details


The third argument to the [sqlite3\_config](c3ref/config.html)([SQLITE\_CONFIG\_LOG](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfiglog),...) 
interface (the "pData" argument in the example above) is a pointer to arbitrary
data. SQLite passes this pointer through to the first argument of the
error logger callback. The pointer can be used to pass application\-specific 
setup or state information, if desired. Or it can simply be a NULL 
pointer which is ignored by the callback.


The second argument to the error logger callback is an integer
[extended error code](rescode.html#extrc). The third argument to the error logger is the
text of the error message. The error message text is stored in a fixed\-length
stack buffer in the calling function and so will only be valid for the
duration of the error logger callback function. The error logger should
make a copy of this message into persistent storage if retention of the
message is needed.


The error logger callback should be treated like a signal handler.
The application should save off or otherwise process the error, then return
as soon as possible. No other SQLite APIs should be invoked, directly or
indirectly, from the error logger. SQLite is not reentrant through
the error logger callback. In particular, the error logger callback
is invoked when a memory allocation fails, so it is generally a bad idea
to try to allocate memory inside the error logger. Do not even think
about trying to store the error message in another SQLite database.


Applications can use the [sqlite3\_log(E,F,..)](c3ref/log.html) API to send new messages
to the log, if desired, but this is discouraged. The [sqlite3\_log()](c3ref/log.html)
interface is intended for use by extensions only, not by applications.


