# 3\. Variety of Error Messages


The error messages that might be sent to the error logger and their
exact format is subject to changes from one release to the next. So
applications should not depend on any particular error message text formats or
error codes. Things do not change capriciously, but they do sometimes
changes.


The following is a partial list of the kinds of messages that might
appear in the error logger callback.


* Any time there is an error either compiling an SQL statement 
(using [sqlite3\_prepare\_v2()](c3ref/prepare.html) or its siblings) or running an SQL
statement (using [sqlite3\_step()](c3ref/step.html)) that error is logged.
* When a schema change occurs that requires a prepared statement to be reparsed
and reprepared, that event is logged with the error code SQLITE\_SCHEMA.
The reparse and reprepare is normally automatic (assuming that
[sqlite3\_prepare\_v2()](c3ref/prepare.html) has been used to prepare the statements originally,
which is recommended) and so these logging events are normally the only
way to know that reprepares are taking place.
* SQLITE\_NOTICE messages are logged whenever a database has to be recovered
because the previous writer crashed without completing its transaction.
The error code is SQLITE\_NOTICE\_RECOVER\_ROLLBACK when recovering a
[rollback journal](lockingv3.html#rollback) and SQLITE\_NOTICE\_RECOVER\_WAL when recovering a 
[write\-ahead log](wal.html).
* SQLITE\_WARNING messages are logged when database files are renamed or
aliased in ways that can lead to database corruption.
(See [1](howtocorrupt.html#unlink) and [2](howtocorrupt.html#alias) for
additional information.)
* Out of memory (OOM) error conditions generate error logging events
with the SQLITE\_NOMEM error code and a message that says how many bytes
of memory were requested by the failed allocation.
* I/O errors in the OS\-interface generate error logging events.
The message to these events gives the line number in the source code where
the error originated and the filename associated with the event when
there is a corresponding file.
* When database corruption is detected, an SQLITE\_CORRUPT error
logger callback is invoked. As with I/O errors, the error message text
contains the line number in the original source code where the error
was first detected.
* An error logger callback is invoked on SQLITE\_MISUSE errors.
This is useful in detecting application design issues when return codes
are not consistently checked in the application code.


SQLite strives to keep error logger traffic low and only send messages
to the error logger when there really is something wrong. Applications
might further cull the error message traffic 
by deliberately ignoring certain classes of error
messages that they do not care about. For example, an application that
makes frequent database schema changes might want to ignore all
SQLITE\_SCHEMA errors.


