# 3\. Descriptions of built\-in aggregate functions




**avg(*X*)**


 The avg() function
 returns the average value of all non\-NULL *X* within a
 group. String and BLOB values that do not look like numbers are
 interpreted as 0\.
 The result of avg() is always a floating point value whenever
 there is at least one non\-NULL input even if all
 inputs are integers. The result of avg() is NULL if
 there are no non\-NULL inputs. The result of avg() is computed
 as [total()](lang_aggfunc.html#sumunc)/[count()](lang_aggfunc.html#count) so all of the constraints that apply to
 [total()](lang_aggfunc.html#sumunc) also apply to avg().




**count(*X*)**


 The count(X) function returns
 a count of the number of times
 that *X* is not NULL in a group. The count(\*) function
 (with no arguments) returns the total number of rows in the group.




**group\_concat(*X*)  
group\_concat(*X*,*Y*)  
string\_agg(*X*,*Y*)**


 The group\_concat() function returns
 a string which is the concatenation of
 all non\-NULL values of *X*. If parameter *Y* is present then
 it is used as the separator
 between instances of *X*.A comma (",") is used as the separator
 if *Y* is omitted.
 
 The string\_agg(X,Y) function is an alias
 for group\_concat(X,Y). String\_agg() is compatible with PostgreSQL
 and SQL\-Server and group\_concat() is compatible with MySQL.
 
 The order of the concatenated elements is arbitrary unless an
 ORDER BY argument is included immediately after the last parameter.








**max(*X*)**


 The max() aggregate function
 returns the maximum value of all values in the group.
 The maximum value is the value that would be returned last in an
 ORDER BY on the same column. Aggregate max() returns NULL 
 if and only if there are no non\-NULL values in the group.




**min(*X*)**


 The min() aggregate function
 returns the minimum non\-NULL value of all values in the group.
 The minimum value is the first non\-NULL value that would appear
 in an ORDER BY of the column.
 Aggregate min() returns NULL if and only if there are no non\-NULL
 values in the group.




**sum(*X*)  
total(*X*)**


 The sum() and total() aggregate functions
 return the sum of all non\-NULL values in the group.
 If there are no non\-NULL input rows then sum() returns
 NULL but total() returns 0\.0\.
 NULL is not normally a helpful result for the sum of no rows
 but the SQL standard requires it and most other
 SQL database engines implement sum() that way so SQLite does it in the
 same way in order to be compatible. The non\-standard total() function
 is provided as a convenient way to work around this design problem
 in the SQL language.


The result of total() is always a floating point value.
 The result of sum() is an integer value if all non\-NULL inputs are integers.
 If any input to sum() is neither an integer nor a NULL,
 then sum() returns a floating point value
 which is an approximation of the mathematical sum.


Sum() will throw an "integer overflow" exception if all inputs
 are integers or NULL
 and an integer overflow occurs at any point during the computation.
 No overflow error is ever raised if any prior input was a floating point
 value.
 Total() never throws an integer overflow.

 When summing floating\-point values, if the magnitudes of the values
 differ wildly then the resulting sum might be imprecise due to the fact that
 [IEEE 754 floating point values are approximations](floatingpoint.html#fpapprox).
 Use the decimal\_sum(X) aggregate in the [decimal extension](floatingpoint.html#decext) to obtain
 an exact summation of floating point numbers. Consider this test case:


> ```
> 
> CREATE TABLE t1(x REAL);
> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES(1.55e+308),(1.23),(3.2e-16),(-1.23),(-1.55e308);
> SELECT sum(x), decimal_sum(x) FROM t1;
> 
> ```




The large values ±1\.55e\+308 cancel each other out, but the
 cancellation does not occur until the end of the sum and in the meantime
 the large \+1\.55e\+308 swamps the tiny 3\.2e\-16 value. The end result is
 an imprecise result for the sum(). The decimal\_sum() aggregate
 generates an exact answer, at the cost of additional CPU and memory usage.
 Note also that decimal\_sum() is not built into the SQLite core; it is a
 [loadable extension](loadext.html).

 If sum of inputs is too large to represent as a IEEE 754 floating
 point value, then a \+Infinity or \-Infinity result may be returned.
 If very large values with differing signs are used
 such that the SUM() or TOTAL() function is
 unable to determine if the correct result is \+Infinity or \-Infinity
 or some other value in between, then the result is NULL. Hence, for
 example, the following query returns NULL:


> ```
> 
> WITH t1(x) AS (VALUES(1.0),(-9e+999),(2.0),(+9e+999),(3.0))
>  SELECT sum(x) FROM t1;
> 
> ```














*This page last modified on [2023\-12\-05 14:43:20](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


