# PRAGMA Statements


The PRAGMA statement is an SQL extension specific to SQLite and used to 
modify the operation of the SQLite library or to query the SQLite library for 
internal (non\-table) data. The PRAGMA statement is issued using the same
interface as other SQLite commands (e.g. [SELECT](lang_select.html), [INSERT](lang_insert.html)) but is
different in the following important respects:



* The pragma command is specific to SQLite and is
 not compatible with any other SQL database engine.
* Specific pragma statements may be removed and others added in future
 releases of SQLite. There is no guarantee of backwards compatibility.
* No error messages are generated if an unknown pragma is issued.
 Unknown pragmas are simply ignored. This means if there is a typo in 
 a pragma statement the library does not inform the user of the fact.
* Some pragmas take effect during the SQL compilation stage, not the
 execution stage. This means if using the C\-language [sqlite3\_prepare()](c3ref/prepare.html), 
 [sqlite3\_step()](c3ref/step.html), [sqlite3\_finalize()](c3ref/finalize.html) API (or similar in a wrapper 
 interface), the pragma may run during the [sqlite3\_prepare()](c3ref/prepare.html) call,
 not during the [sqlite3\_step()](c3ref/step.html) call as normal SQL statements do.
 Or the pragma might run during sqlite3\_step() just like normal
 SQL statements. Whether or not the pragma runs during sqlite3\_prepare()
 or sqlite3\_step() depends on the pragma and on the specific release
 of SQLite.
* The [EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html) and [EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN](eqp.html) prefixes to SQL statements
 only affect the behavior of the statement during [sqlite3\_step()](c3ref/step.html).
 That means that PRAGMA statements that take effect during
 [sqlite3\_prepare()](c3ref/prepare.html) will behave the same way regardless of whether or
 not they are prefaced by "EXPLAIN".


The C\-language API for SQLite provides the [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_PRAGMA](c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntlpragma)
[file control](c3ref/file_control.html) which gives [VFS](vfs.html) implementations the
opportunity to add new PRAGMA statements or to override the meaning of
built\-in PRAGMA statements.




---


