## PRAGMA command syntax


**[pragma\-stmt:](syntax/pragma-stmt.html)**
hide








PRAGMA



schema\-name



.



pragma\-name



(



pragma\-value



)






\=



pragma\-value











**[pragma\-value:](syntax/pragma-value.html)**
hide








signed\-number




name

signed\-literal












**[signed\-number:](syntax/signed-number.html)**
show








\+



numeric\-literal






\-










A pragma can take either zero or one argument. The argument is may be either
in parentheses or it may be separated from the pragma name by an equal sign.
The two syntaxes yield identical results.
In many pragmas, the argument is a boolean. The boolean can be one of:




**1 yes true on  
0 no false off**

Keyword arguments can optionally appear in quotes. 
(Example: 'yes' \[FALSE].) Some pragmas
takes a string literal as their argument. When pragma takes a keyword
argument, it will usually also take a numeric equivalent as well.
For example, "0" and "no" mean the same thing, as does "1" and "yes".
When querying the value of a setting, many pragmas return the number
rather than the keyword.


A pragma may have an optional schema\-name
before the pragma name.
The schema\-name is the name of an [ATTACH](lang_attach.html)\-ed database 
or "main" or "temp" for the main and the TEMP databases. If the optional
schema name is omitted, "main" is assumed. In some pragmas, the schema
name is meaningless and is simply ignored. In the documentation below,
pragmas for which the schema name is meaningful are shown with a
"*schema.*" prefix.




---


