## SQLite Release 3\.8\.3 On 2014\-02\-03

1. Added support for [common table expressions](../lang_with.html) and the [WITH clause](../lang_with.html).
- Added the [printf()](../lang_corefunc.html#printf) SQL function.
- Added [SQLITE\_DETERMINISTIC](../c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqlitedeterministic) as an optional bit in the 4th argument to the
 [sqlite3\_create\_function()](../c3ref/create_function.html) and related interfaces, providing applications with
 the ability to create new functions that can be factored out of inner loops when
 they have constant arguments.
- Add [SQLITE\_READONLY\_DBMOVED](../rescode.html#readonly_dbmoved) error code, returned at the beginning of a
 transaction, to indicate that the underlying database file has been renamed
 or moved out from under SQLite.
- Allow arbitrary expressions, including function calls and subqueries, in
 the filename argument to [ATTACH](../lang_attach.html).
- Allow a [VALUES clause](../lang_select.html#values) to be used anywhere a [SELECT](../lang_select.html) statement is valid.
- Reseed the PRNG used by [sqlite3\_randomness(N,P)](../c3ref/randomness.html) when invoked with N\=\=0\.
 Automatically reseed after a fork() on unix.
- Enhance the [spellfix1](../spellfix1.html) virtual table so that it can search efficiently by rowid.
- Performance enhancements.
- Improvements to the comments in the VDBE byte\-code display when running [EXPLAIN](../lang_explain.html).
- Add the "%token\_class" directive to [Lemon parser generator](../lemon.html) and use it to simplify
 the grammar.
- Change the [Lemon](../lemon.html) source code to avoid calling C\-library functions that OpenBSD
 considers dangerous. (Ex: sprintf).
- Bug fix: In the [command\-line shell](../cli.html) CSV import feature, do not end a field
 when an escaped double\-quote occurs at the end of a CRLN line.
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID:
 "2014\-02\-03 13:52:03 e816dd924619db5f766de6df74ea2194f3e3b538"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: 98a07da78f71b0275e8d9c510486877adc31dbee



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


