### URI Filenames




If [URI filename](../uri.html) interpretation is enabled, and the filename argument
begins with "file:", then the filename is interpreted as a URI. URI
filename interpretation is enabled if the [SQLITE\_OPEN\_URI](../c3ref/c_open_autoproxy.html) flag is
set in the third argument to sqlite3\_open\_v2(), or if it has
been enabled globally using the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_URI](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfiguri) option with the
[sqlite3\_config()](../c3ref/config.html) method or by the [SQLITE\_USE\_URI](../compile.html#use_uri) compile\-time option.
URI filename interpretation is turned off
by default, but future releases of SQLite might enable URI filename
interpretation by default. See "[URI filenames](../uri.html)" for additional
information.


URI filenames are parsed according to RFC 3986\. If the URI contains an
authority, then it must be either an empty string or the string
"localhost". If the authority is not an empty string or "localhost", an
error is returned to the caller. The fragment component of a URI, if
present, is ignored.


SQLite uses the path component of the URI as the name of the disk file
which contains the database. If the path begins with a '/' character,
then it is interpreted as an absolute path. If the path does not begin
with a '/' (meaning that the authority section is omitted from the URI)
then the path is interpreted as a relative path.
On windows, the first component of an absolute path
is a drive specification (e.g. "C:").




The query component of a URI may contain parameters that are interpreted
either by SQLite itself, or by a [custom VFS implementation](../vfs.html).
SQLite and its built\-in [VFSes](../vfs.html) interpret the
following query parameters:


* **vfs**: The "vfs" parameter may be used to specify the name of
a VFS object that provides the operating system interface that should
be used to access the database file on disk. If this option is set to
an empty string the default VFS object is used. Specifying an unknown
VFS is an error. If sqlite3\_open\_v2() is used and the vfs option is
present, then the VFS specified by the option takes precedence over
the value passed as the fourth parameter to sqlite3\_open\_v2().



- **mode**: The mode parameter may be set to either "ro", "rw",
"rwc", or "memory". Attempting to set it to any other value is
an error.
If "ro" is specified, then the database is opened for read\-only
access, just as if the [SQLITE\_OPEN\_READONLY](../c3ref/c_open_autoproxy.html) flag had been set in the
third argument to sqlite3\_open\_v2(). If the mode option is set to
"rw", then the database is opened for read\-write (but not create)
access, as if SQLITE\_OPEN\_READWRITE (but not SQLITE\_OPEN\_CREATE) had
been set. Value "rwc" is equivalent to setting both
SQLITE\_OPEN\_READWRITE and SQLITE\_OPEN\_CREATE. If the mode option is
set to "memory" then a pure [in\-memory database](../inmemorydb.html) that never reads
or writes from disk is used. It is an error to specify a value for
the mode parameter that is less restrictive than that specified by
the flags passed in the third parameter to sqlite3\_open\_v2().



- **cache**: The cache parameter may be set to either "shared" or
"private". Setting it to "shared" is equivalent to setting the
SQLITE\_OPEN\_SHAREDCACHE bit in the flags argument passed to
sqlite3\_open\_v2(). Setting the cache parameter to "private" is
equivalent to setting the SQLITE\_OPEN\_PRIVATECACHE bit.
If sqlite3\_open\_v2() is used and the "cache" parameter is present in
a URI filename, its value overrides any behavior requested by setting
SQLITE\_OPEN\_PRIVATECACHE or SQLITE\_OPEN\_SHAREDCACHE flag.



- **psow**: The psow parameter indicates whether or not the
[powersafe overwrite](../psow.html) property does or does not apply to the
storage media on which the database file resides.



- **nolock**: The nolock parameter is a boolean query parameter
which if set disables file locking in rollback journal modes. This
is useful for accessing a database on a filesystem that does not
support locking. Caution: Database corruption might result if two
or more processes write to the same database and any one of those
processes uses nolock\=1\.



- **immutable**: The immutable parameter is a boolean query
parameter that indicates that the database file is stored on
read\-only media. When immutable is set, SQLite assumes that the
database file cannot be changed, even by a process with higher
privilege, and so the database is opened read\-only and all locking
and change detection is disabled. Caution: Setting the immutable
property on a database file that does in fact change can result
in incorrect query results and/or [SQLITE\_CORRUPT](../rescode.html#corrupt) errors.
See also: [SQLITE\_IOCAP\_IMMUTABLE](../c3ref/c_iocap_atomic.html).




Specifying an unknown parameter in the query component of a URI is not an
error. Future versions of SQLite might understand additional query
parameters. See "[query parameters with special meaning to SQLite](../uri.html#coreqp)" for
additional information.



