# 2\. Time Values


A time\-value can be in any of the following formats shown below.
The value is usually a string, though it can be an integer or floating
point number in the case of format 12\.



1. *YYYY\-MM\-DD*
2. *YYYY\-MM\-DD HH:MM*
3. *YYYY\-MM\-DD HH:MM:SS*
4. *YYYY\-MM\-DD HH:MM:SS.SSS*
5. *YYYY\-MM\-DD***T***HH:MM*
6. *YYYY\-MM\-DD***T***HH:MM:SS*
7. *YYYY\-MM\-DD***T***HH:MM:SS.SSS*
8. *HH:MM*
9. *HH:MM:SS*
10. *HH:MM:SS.SSS*
11. **now**
12. *DDDDDDDDDD*



In formats 5 through 7, the "T" is a literal character separating 
the date and the time, as required by 
[ISO\-8601](http://www.w3c.org/TR/NOTE-datetime). 
Formats 8 through 10 that specify only a time assume a date of 
2000\-01\-01\. Format 11, the string 'now', is converted into the 
current date and time as obtained from the xCurrentTime method
of the [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html) object in use.
The 'now' argument to date and time functions always returns exactly the
same value for multiple invocations within the same [sqlite3\_step()](c3ref/step.html) call.
[Universal Coordinated Time (UTC)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) is used. 
Format 12 is the 
[Julian day number](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_day)
expressed as an integer or floating point value.
Format 12 might also be interpreted as a unix timestamp if it is immediately followed
either the ['auto'](lang_datefunc.html#automod) or ['unixepoch'](lang_datefunc.html#jdmod) modifier.




Formats 2 through 10 may be optionally followed by a timezone indicator of the form
"*\[\+\-]HH:MM*" or just "*Z*". The date and time functions use UTC or "zulu"
time internally, and so the "Z" suffix is a no\-op. Any non\-zero "HH:MM" suffix is
subtracted from the indicated date and time in order to compute zulu time.
For example, all of the following time\-values are equivalent:




> 2013\-10\-07 08:23:19\.120  
> 
> 2013\-10\-07T08:23:19\.120Z  
> 
> 2013\-10\-07 04:23:19\.120\-04:00  
> 
> 2456572\.84952685



In formats 4, 7, and 10, the fractional seconds value SS.SSS can have
one or more digits following the decimal point. Exactly three digits are
shown in the examples because only the first three digits are significant
to the result, but the input string can have fewer or more than three digits
and the date/time functions will still operate correctly.
Similarly, format 12 is shown with 10 significant digits, but the date/time
functions will really accept as many or as few digits as are necessary to
represent the Julian day number.




In all functions other than timediff(),
the time\-value (and all modifiers) may be omitted, in which case a time
value of 'now' is assumed.




