## 2\.2\. Concurrency


When a read operation begins on a WAL\-mode database, it first
remembers the location of the last valid commit record in the WAL.
Call this point the "end mark". Because the WAL can be growing and
adding new commit records while various readers connect to the database,
each reader can potentially have its own end mark. But for any
particular reader, the end mark is unchanged for the duration of the
transaction, thus ensuring that a single read transaction only sees
the database content as it existed at a single point in time.


When a reader needs a page of content, it first checks the WAL to
see if that page appears there, and if so it pulls in the last copy
of the page that occurs in the WAL prior to the reader's end mark.
If no copy of the page exists in the WAL prior to the reader's end mark,
then the page is read from the original database file. Readers can
exist in separate processes, so to avoid forcing every reader to scan
the entire WAL looking for pages (the WAL file can grow to
multiple megabytes, depending on how often checkpoints are run), a
data structure called the "wal\-index" is maintained in shared memory
which helps readers locate pages in the WAL quickly and with a minimum
of I/O. The wal\-index greatly improves the performance of readers,
but the use of shared memory means that all readers must exist on the
same machine. This is why the write\-ahead log implementation will not
work on a network filesystem.


Writers merely append new content to the end of the WAL file.
Because writers do nothing that would interfere with the actions of
readers, writers and readers can run at the same time. However,
since there is only one WAL file, there can only be one writer at
a time.


A checkpoint operation takes content from the WAL file
and transfers it back into the original database file.
A checkpoint can run concurrently with readers, however the checkpoint
must stop when it reaches a page in the WAL that is past the end mark
of any current reader. The checkpoint has to stop at that point because
otherwise it might overwrite part of the database file that the reader
is actively using. The checkpoint remembers (in the wal\-index) how far
it got and will resume transferring content from the WAL to the database
from where it left off on the next invocation.


Thus a long\-running read transaction can prevent a checkpointer from
making progress. But presumably every read transaction will eventually
end and the checkpointer will be able to continue.


Whenever a write operation occurs, the writer checks how much progress
the checkpointer has made, and if the entire WAL has been transferred into
the database and synced and if no readers are making use of the WAL, then
the writer will rewind the WAL back to the beginning and start putting new
transactions at the beginning of the WAL. This mechanism prevents a WAL
file from growing without bound.



