# In\-Memory Databases


An SQLite database is normally stored in a single ordinary disk
file. However, in certain circumstances, the database might be stored in
memory.


The most common way to force an SQLite database to exist purely 
in memory is to open the database using the special filename
"**:memory:**". In other words, instead of passing the name of
a real disk file into one of the [sqlite3\_open()](c3ref/open.html), [sqlite3\_open16()](c3ref/open.html), or
[sqlite3\_open\_v2()](c3ref/open.html) functions, pass in the string ":memory:". For
example:



> ```
> 
> rc = sqlite3_open(":memory:", &db);
> 
> ```


When this is done, no disk file is opened. 
Instead, a new database is created
purely in memory. The database ceases to exist as soon as the database
connection is closed. Every :memory: database is distinct from every
other. So, opening two database connections each with the filename
":memory:" will create two independent in\-memory databases.


The special filename ":memory:" can be used anywhere that a database
filename is permitted. For example, it can be used as the
*filename* in an [ATTACH](lang_attach.html) command:



> ```
> 
> ATTACH DATABASE ':memory:' AS aux1;
> 
> ```


Note that in order for the special ":memory:" name to apply and to
create a pure in\-memory database, there must be no additional text in the
filename. Thus, a disk\-based database can be created in a file by prepending
a pathname, like this: "./:memory:".


The special ":memory:" filename also works when using [URI filenames](uri.html).
For example:


> ```
> 
> rc = sqlite3_open("file::memory:", &db);
> 
> ```



Or,


> ```
> 
> ATTACH DATABASE 'file::memory:' AS aux1;
> 
> ```



