## SQLite Release 3\.5\.8 On 2008\-04\-16

1. Expose SQLite's internal pseudo\-random number generator (PRNG)
 via the [sqlite3\_randomness()](../c3ref/randomness.html) interface
2. New interface [sqlite3\_context\_db\_handle()](../c3ref/context_db_handle.html) that returns the
 [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) handle that has invoked an application\-defined
 SQL function.
3. New interface [sqlite3\_limit()](../c3ref/limit.html) allows size and length limits to be
 set on a per\-connection basis and at run\-time.
4. Improved crash\-robustness: write the database page size into the rollback
 journal header.
5. Allow the [VACUUM](../lang_vacuum.html) command to change the page size of a database file.
6. The xAccess() method of the VFS is allowed to return \-1 to signal
 a memory allocation error.
7. Performance improvement: The OP\_IdxDelete opcode uses unpacked records,
 obviating the need for one OP\_MakeRecord opcode call for each index
 record deleted.
8. Performance improvement: Constant subexpressions are factored out of
 loops.
9. Performance improvement: Results of OP\_Column are reused rather than
 issuing multiple OP\_Column opcodes.
10. Fix a bug in the RTRIM collating sequence.
11. Fix a bug in the SQLITE\_SECURE\_DELETE option that was causing
 Firefox crashes. Make arrangements to always test SQLITE\_SECURE\_DELETE
 prior to each release.
12. Other miscellaneous performance enhancements.
13. Other miscellaneous minor bug fixes.



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


