## 8\.1\. Disqualifying WHERE Clause Terms using Unary\-"\+"



*Note: Disqualifying WHERE clause terms this way is not recommended.
 This is a work\-around.
 Only do this as a last resort to get the performance you need. If you
 find a situation where this work\-around is necessary, please report the
 situation on the [SQLite Community Forum](https://sqlite.org/forum) so
 that the SQLite maintainers can try to improve the query planner such
 that the work\-around is no longer required for your situation.*



 Terms of the WHERE clause can be manually disqualified for use with
 indexes by prepending a unary **\+** operator to the column name. The
 unary **\+** is a no\-op and will not generate any byte code in the prepared
 statement.
 However, the unary **\+** operator will prevent the term from
 constraining an index.
 So, in the example above, if the query were rewritten as:




```
SELECT z FROM ex2 WHERE +x=5 AND y=6;

```


 The **\+** operator on the **x** column will prevent that term from 
 constraining an index. This would force the use of the ex2i2 index.




 Note that the unary **\+** operator also removes 
 [type affinity](datatype3.html#affinity) from
 an expression, and in some cases this can cause subtle changes in
 the meaning of an expression.
 In the example above,
 if column **x** has [TEXT affinity](datatype3.html#affinity)
 then the comparison "x\=5" will be done as text. The **\+** operator
 removes the affinity. So the comparison "**\+x\=5**" will compare the text
 in column **x** with the numeric value 5 and will always be false.




