## 2\.1\. Index Term Usage Examples



 For the index above and WHERE clause like this:




```
... WHERE a=5 AND b IN (1,2,3) AND c IS NULL AND d='hello'

```


 The first four columns a, b, c, and d of the index would be usable since
 those four columns form a prefix of the index and are all bound by
 equality constraints.




 For the index above and WHERE clause like this:




```
... WHERE a=5 AND b IN (1,2,3) AND c>12 AND d='hello'

```


 Only columns a, b, and c of the index would be usable. The d column
 would not be usable because it occurs to the right of c and c is
 constrained only by inequalities.




 For the index above and WHERE clause like this:




```
... WHERE a=5 AND b IN (1,2,3) AND d='hello'

```


 Only columns a and b of the index would be usable. The d column
 would not be usable because column c is not constrained and there can
 be no gaps in the set of columns that usable by the index.




 For the index above and WHERE clause like this:




```
... WHERE b IN (1,2,3) AND c NOT NULL AND d='hello'

```


 The index is not usable at all because the left\-most column of the
 index (column "a") is not constrained. Assuming there are no other
 indexes, the query above would result in a full table scan.




 For the index above and WHERE clause like this:




```
... WHERE a=5 OR b IN (1,2,3) OR c NOT NULL OR d='hello'

```


 The index is not usable because the WHERE clause terms are connected
 by OR instead of AND. This query would result in a full table scan.
 However, if three additional indexes where added that contained columns
 b, c, and d as their left\-most columns, then the
 [OR\-clause optimization](#or_opt) might apply.





