## SQLite Release 3\.30\.0 On 2019\-10\-04

1. Add support for the [FILTER clause on aggregate functions](../lang_aggfunc.html#aggfilter).
- Add support for the [NULLS FIRST](../lang_select.html#nullslast) and [NULLS LAST](../lang_select.html#nullslast) syntax in [ORDER BY](../lang_select.html#orderby) clauses.
- The [index\_info](../pragma.html#pragma_index_info) and [index\_xinfo](../pragma.html#pragma_index_xinfo) pragmas are enhanced to provide
 information about the on\-disk representation of [WITHOUT ROWID](../withoutrowid.html)
 tables.
- Add the [sqlite3\_drop\_modules()](../c3ref/drop_modules.html) interface, allowing applications
 to disable automatically loaded virtual tables that they do not
 need.
- Improvements to the [.recover dot\-command](../cli.html#recover) in the [CLI](../cli.html) so that
 it recovers more content from corrupt database files.
- Enhance the [RBU](../rbu.html) extension to support [indexes on expressions](../expridx.html).
- Change the schema parser so that it will error out if any of
 the type, name, and tbl\_name columns of the [sqlite\_master table](../schematab.html)
 have been corrupted and the database connection is not in
 [writable\_schema](../pragma.html#pragma_writable_schema) mode.
- The [PRAGMA function\_list](../pragma.html#pragma_function_list), [PRAGMA module\_list](../pragma.html#pragma_module_list), and
 [PRAGMA pragma\_list](../pragma.html#pragma_pragma_list) commands are now
 enabled in all builds by default. Disable them using
 [\-DSQLITE\_OMIT\_INTROSPECTION\_PRAGMAS](../compile.html#omit_introspection_pragmas).
- Add the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_ENABLE\_VIEW](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigenableview) option for [sqlite3\_db\_config()](../c3ref/db_config.html).
- Added the [TCL Interface](../tclsqlite.html) [config method](../tclsqlite.html#config) in order to be able to
 disable [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_ENABLE\_VIEW](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigenableview) as well as control other
 [sqlite3\_db\_config()](../c3ref/db_config.html) options from TCL.
- Added the [SQLITE\_DIRECTONLY](../c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqlitedirectonly) flag for
 [application\-defined SQL functions](../appfunc.html) to prevent those functions from
 being used inside triggers and views.
- The legacy [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](../compile.html#enable_stat3) compile\-time option is now a no\-op.
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2019\-10\-04 15:03:17 c20a35336432025445f9f7e289d0cc3e4003fb17f45a4ce74c6269c407c6e09f
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: f04393dd47205a4ee2b98ff737dc51a3fdbcc14c055b88d58f5b27d0672158f5



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


