## 1\.1\. Database As Container Object



An SQLite Archive is one example of a more general
idea that an SQLite database can behave as a container object holding
lots of smaller data components.




With client/server databases like PostgreSQL or Oracle, users and
developers tend to think of the database as a service or a "node", not
as an object. This is because the database content is spread out across
multiple files on the server, or possibly across multiple servers in a
service cluster. One cannot point to a single file or even a single
directory and say "this is the database".




SQLite, in contrast, stores all content in a [single file on disk](fileformat2.html).
That single file is something you can point to and say
"this is the database". It behaves as an object.
An SQLite database file can be copied, renamed, sent as an
email attachment, passed as the argument a POST HTTP request,
or otherwise treated as other data object such as an image,
document, or media file.




Studies show that many applications already use
SQLite as a container object. For example,
[Kennedy](https://odin.cse.buffalo.edu/papers/2015/TPCTC-sqlite-final.pdf)
(no relation to the [SQLite developer](crew.html#dan)) reports that 14% of
Android applications never write to their SQLite databases. It is
believed that these applications are downloading entire databases
from the cloud and then using the information locally as needed. In other
words, the applications are using SQLite not so much as a database but as
a queryable wire\-transfer format.



