# 2\. Advantages Of SQLite Archives


1. An SQLite Archive is flexible.
ZIP Archives and Tarballs are limited to storing only files. An
SQLite Archive stores files plus whatever other tabular
and/or relational data seems useful to the application.
2. An SQLite Archive is transactional.
Updates are atomic and durable, even if there are crashes
or power losses in the middle of the update.
Readers see a consistent and unchanging version of the content even
is some other process is simultaneously updating the archive.
3. An SQLite Archive can be updated incrementally.
Individual files can be added or removed or replaced without having
to rewrite the entire archive.
4. An SQLite Archive can be queried using a high\-level query language (SQL).
Some examples:



	* What is the total size of all files in the archive whose names
	 end in ".h" or ".cpp"?
	* What percentage of the files are compressed by less than 25%?
	* How many executable files are in the archive?
Questions like these (and countless others) can be answered without
having to uncompress or extract any content.
5. Applications that already use SQLite for other purposes can easily
add support for SQLite Archives using a small extension
(<https://sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/sqlar.c>) to handle the compression
and decompression of content. Even this tiny extension can be omitted
if the files in the archive are uncompressed. In contrast, supporting
ZIP Archives and/or Tarballs requires either separate libraries or
lots of extra custom code, or sometimes both.
6. An SQLite Archive can work around firewall\-imposed censorship.
For example, certain file types that are considered "dangerous"
(examples: DLLs) will be
[blocked by Gmail](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/6590)
and probably many other email services and firewalls, even if the
files are wrapped inside a ZIP Archive or Tarball.
But these firewalls usually do not (yet) know about SQLite Archives and
so content can be put inside an SQLite Archive to evade censorship.


