# 1\. Introduction


Every SQL database engine works in roughly the same way: It first 
translates the input SQL text into a "prepared statement". Then it "executes"
the prepared statement to generate a result.



A prepared statement is an object that represents the steps needed
to accomplish the input SQL. Or, to think of it in another way,
the prepared statement is the SQL statement translated into a form that is
more easily understood by the computer.



In SQLite, a prepared statement is an instance of the
[sqlite3\_stmt object](c3ref/stmt.html). In other systems, the prepared
statement is usually an internal data structure that is not directly visible to
the application programmer. Developers of other SQL database engines
do not necessarily call these objects "prepared statements".
But such objects exists, whatever they might be called.
This paper will use the term "prepared statement".



There are countless ways of implementing a prepared statement. This
paper will look at the two most common methods:



1. **Bytecode** → The input SQL is translated into a virtual machine language
that is then run by a virtual machine interpreter. This is the technique
used by SQLite.
2. **Tree\-Of\-Objects** → The input SQL is translated in a tree of objects
that represent the processing to be done. The SQL is executed by walking this
tree. This is the technique used by MySQL and PostgreSQL.



There are advantages and disadvantages to each of these representations of
a prepared statement. The purpose of this paper is to articulate some of those
advantages and disadvantages.



