## 1\.2\. Definition Of "Bytecode"


The [bytecode generated by SQLite](opcode.html) might be a little different from what
many readers think of as bytecode. The bytecode used (for example) by the
[Java virtual machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_virtual_machine) or
by [WebAssembly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebAssembly) consists almost
entirely of low\-level operations, similar to what physical CPUs implement:
basic math operators, comparisons, conditional jumps, and
instructions to move content between different memory locations. SQLite bytecode
has these kinds of low\-level instructions, too. But SQLite bytecode also contains
some high\-level operations that are specific to the needs of a database engine.
Here are just a few examples:






* **OP\_Column** → Extract the value from the N\-th column of the
database row that a particular cursor is currently pointing at.
* **OP\_CreateBtree** → Allocate space for a new B\-Tree in the
database file.
* **OP\_ParseSchema** → Reread and reparse all or part of the
[sqlite\_schema table](schematab.html) and refresh internal symbol tables accordingly.
* **OP\_SeekGE** → Move a cursor on a particular B\-Tree to the first
entry that is greater than or equal to a given key.
* **OP\_Next** → Advance a cursor on a particular B\-Tree to the next
entry in the B\-Tree and jump, or fall through if there are no more entries in that
B\-Tree.


In other words, the "bytecode" used by SQLite is not so much a set of CPU
instructions as it is a list of database primitives that are to be run
in a particular order.



