# Recommendations



 Generally, if your data is separated from the application
 by a network, you want to use a client/server database.
 This is due to the fact that the database engine acts
 as a bandwidth\-reducing filter on the database traffic.



 If your data is separated from the application by a network,
 you want the low\-traffic link to be across the network,
 not the high\-traffic link. This means that the database engine
 needs to be on the same machine as the database itself.
 Such is the case with a client/server database like PostgreSQL.
 SQLite is different in that the database engine runs on
 the same machine as the application, which forces the
 higher\-traffic link to traverse the network in remote
 database scenarios. That normally results in lower performance.



 Network filesystems do not support the ability to do
 simultaneous reads and writes while at the same time
 keeping the database consistent.
 So if you have multiple clients on multiple different
 machines which need to do simultaneous database
 reads and writes, you have these choices:



 1\. Use a client/server database engine.
 [PostgreSQL](https://postgresql.org/)
 is an excellent choice. A variation of this is:



 2\. Host an SQLite database in [WAL mode](wal.html), but do
 all reads and writes from processes on the same machine
 that stores the database file.
 Implement a proxy that runs on the database machine that
 relays read/write requests from remote machines.



 3\. Use SQLite in [rollback mode](isolation.html).
 This means you can have multiple simultaneous readers or one writer,
 but not simultaneous readers and writers.



 Application programmers should be cognizant of the possibility
 that their application's users will elect to use a remote database
 if they can do so. Unless one of the above choices
 has been effected, or one at a time, exclusive access is used,
 a programmer should consider blocking that
 election unless reliability is of little importance.



