# 8\. Double\-quoted String Literals Are Accepted



The SQL standard requires double\-quotes around identifiers
and single\-quotes around string literals. For example:


* "this is a legal SQL column name"
* 'this is an SQL string literal'



SQLite accepts both of the above. But, in an effort to be compatible
with MySQL 3\.x (which was one of the most widely used RDBMSes
when SQLite was first being designed) SQLite will also interpret
a double\-quotes string as
string literal if it does not match any valid identifier.



This misfeature means that a misspelled double\-quoted
identifier will be interpreted as a string literal, rather than generating
an error.
It also lures developers who are new to the SQL language into the
bad habit of using double\-quoted string literals when they
really need to learn to use the correct single\-quoted string literal form.



In hindsight, we should not have tried to make SQLite accept MySQL 3\.x
syntax, and should have never allowed double\-quoted string literals.
However, there are countless applications that make use of
double\-quoted string literals and so we continue to support
that capability to avoid breaking legacy.



As of SQLite 3\.27\.0 (2019\-02\-07\) the use of a double\-quoted
string literal causes a warning message to be sent to the [error log](errlog.html).



As of SQLite 3\.29\.0 (2019\-07\-10\) the use of double\-quoted
string literals can be disabled at run\-time using the
[SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DDL](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdqsddl) and [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DML](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdqsdml) actions
to [sqlite3\_db\_config()](c3ref/db_config.html). The default settings can be altered
at compile\-time using the [\-DSQLITE\_DQS\=*N*](compile.html#dqs) compile\-time
option. Application developers are encouraged to compile using
\-DSQLITE\_DQS\=0 in order to disable the double\-quoted string literal
misfeature by default. If that is not possible, then disable
double\-quoted string literals for individual database connections
using C\-code like this:



> ```
> 
> sqlite3_db_config(db, SQLITE_DBCONFIG_DQS_DDL, 0, (void*)0);
> sqlite3_db_config(db, SQLITE_DBCONFIG_DQS_DML, 0, (void*)0);
> 
> ```


Or, if double\-quoted string literals are disabled by default, but need
to be selectively enabled for some historical database connections,
that can be done using the same C\-code as shown above except with the
third parameter changed from 0 to 1\.



As of SQLite 3\.41\.0 (2023\-02\-21\) SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DDL and
SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DML are disabled by default in the [CLI](cli.html). Use
the ".dbconfig" dot\-command to reenable the legacy behavior if
desired.



