# 3\. Flexible Typing



SQLite is flexible with regard to datatypes. Datatypes are advisory
rather than mandatory.




Some commentators say that SQLite is "weakly typed" and that other
SQL databases are "strongly typed". We consider these terms to be
inaccurate and even pejorative. We prefer to say that SQLite is
"flexibly typed" and that other SQL database engines are
"rigidly typed".




See the [Datatypes in SQLite](datatype3.html) document for a detailed
discussion of the type system in SQLite.




The key point is that SQLite is very forgiving of the type of data that
you put into the database. For example, if a column has a datatype of
"INTEGER" and the application inserts a text string into that column,
SQLite will first try to convert the text string into an integer, just like
every other SQL database engine. Thus, if one inserts **'1234'** into
an INTEGER column, that value is converted into an integer 1234 and stored.
But, if you insert a non\-numeric string like **'wxyz'** into an INTEGER
column, unlike other SQL databases, SQLite does not throw an error. Instead,
SQLite stores the actual string value in the column.




Similarly, SQLite allows you to store a 2000\-character string into a
column of type VARCHAR(50\). Other SQL implementations would either throw
an error or truncate the string. SQLite stores the entire 2000\-character
string with no loss of information and without complaint.




Where this ends up causing problems is when developers do some initial
coding work using SQLite and get their application working, but then try
to convert to another database like PostgreSQL or SQL Server for deployment.
If the application is initially taking advantage of SQLite's flexible typing,
then it will fail when moved to another database that uses a more rigid
and unforgiving type enforcement policy.




[Flexible typing is a feature](flextypegood.html) of SQLite, not a bug. Flexible typing
is about freedom.
Nevertheless, we recognize that this feature does sometimes cause
confusion for developers who are accustomed to working with
other databases that are more strict with regard to data type rules.
In retrospect, perhaps it would have been less confusing if SQLite had merely
implemented an ANY datatype so that developers could explicitly state
when they wanted to use flexible typing, rather than making flexible
typing the default.
As an accommodation for those who expect rigid typing, SQLite version 3\.37\.0
(2021\-11\-27\) introduced the option of [STRICT tables](stricttables.html).
These either impose
the mandatory datatype constraints found in other SQL database engines,
or allow the explicit ANY datatype to retain SQLite's flexible typing.



