## 2\.3\. Limitations


1. Generated columns may not have a [default value](lang_createtable.html#dfltval) (they may not use the
"DEFAULT" clause). The value of a generated column is always the value
specified by the expression that follows the "AS" keyword.
2. Generated columns may not be used as part of the [PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#primkeyconst).
(Future versions of SQLite might relax this constraint for STORED columns.)
3. The expression of a generated column may only reference
constant literals and columns within the same row, and may only use
scalar [deterministic functions](deterministic.html). The expression may not use subqueries,
aggregate functions, window functions, or table\-valued functions.
4. The expression of a generated column may refer to other generated columns
in the same row, but no generated column can depend upon itself, either
directly or indirectly.
5. The expression of a generated column may not directly reference
the [ROWID](lang_createtable.html#rowid), though it can reference the [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid) column,
which is often the same thing.
6. Every table must have at least one non\-generated column.
7. It is not possible to [ALTER TABLE ADD COLUMN](lang_altertable.html#altertabaddcol) a STORED column.
One can add a VIRTUAL column, however.
8. The datatype and [collating sequence](datatype3.html#collation) of the generated column are determined
only by the datatype and [COLLATE clause](lang_createtable.html#collateclause) on the column definition.
The datatype and collating sequence of the GENERATED ALWAYS AS expression
have no affect on the datatype and collating sequence of the column itself.
9. Generated columns are not included in the list of columns provided by
the [PRAGMA table\_info](pragma.html#pragma_table_info) statement. But they are included in the output of
the newer [PRAGMA table\_xinfo](pragma.html#pragma_table_xinfo) statement.


