## 3\.6\. FTS5 Column Filters



A single phrase or NEAR group may be restricted to matching text within a
specified column of the FTS table by prefixing it with the column name
followed by a colon character. Or to a set of columns by prefixing it
with a whitespace separated list of column names enclosed in parenthesis
("curly brackets") followed by a colon character. Column names may be specified
using either of the two forms described for strings above. Unlike strings that
are part of phrases, column names are not passed to the tokenizer module.
Column names are case\-insensitive in the usual way for SQLite column names \-
upper/lower case equivalence is understood for ASCII\-range characters only.




```
... MATCH 'colname : NEAR("one two" "three four", 10)'
... MATCH '"colname" : one + two + three'

... MATCH '{col1 col2} : NEAR("one two" "three four", 10)'
... MATCH '{col2 col1 col3} : one + two + three'

```


If a column filter specification is preceded by a "\-" character, then
it is interpreted as a list of column not to match against. For example:




```
-- Search for matches in all columns except "colname"
... MATCH '- colname : NEAR("one two" "three four", 10)'

-- Search for matches in all columns except "col1", "col2" and "col3"
... MATCH '- {col2 col1 col3} : one + two + three'

```


Column filter specifications may also be applied to arbitrary expressions
enclosed in parenthesis. In this case the column filter applies to all
phrases within the expression. Nested column filter operations may only
further restrict the subset of columns matched, they can not be used to
re\-enable filtered columns. For example:




```
-- The following are equivalent:
... MATCH '{a b} : ( {b c} : "hello" AND "world" )'
... MATCH '(b : "hello") AND ({a b} : "world")'

```


Finally, a column filter for a single column may be specified by using
the column name as the LHS of a MATCH operator (instead of the usual
table name). For example:




```
-- Given the following table
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE ft USING fts5(a, b, c);

-- The following are equivalent
SELECT * FROM ft WHERE b MATCH 'uvw AND xyz';
SELECT * FROM ft WHERE ft MATCH 'b : (uvw AND xyz)';

-- This query cannot match any rows (since all columns are filtered out): 
SELECT * FROM ft WHERE b MATCH 'a : xyz';

```


