# 4\. FTS5 Table Creation and Initialization


Each argument specified as part of a "CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE ... USING fts5
..." statement is either a column declaration or a configuration option. A
**column declaration** consists of one or more whitespace separated FTS5
barewords or string literals quoted in any manner acceptable to SQLite.



The first string or bareword in a column declaration is the column name. It
is an error to attempt to name an fts5 table column "rowid" or "rank", or to
assign the same name to a column as is used by the table itself. This is not
supported.



Each subsequent string or bareword in a column declaration is a column
option that modifies the behaviour of that column. Column options are
case\-independent. Unlike the SQLite core, FTS5 considers unrecognized column
options to be errors. Currently, the only option recognized is
["UNINDEXED" (see below)](fts5.html#the_unindexed_column_option).



A **configuration option** consists of an FTS5 bareword \- the option name \-
followed by an "\=" character, followed by the option value. The option value is
specified using either a single FTS5 bareword or a string literal, again quoted
in any manner acceptable to the SQLite core. For example:




```
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE mail USING fts5(sender, title, body, tokenize = 'porter ascii');

```

 There are currently the following configuration options:



* The "tokenize" option, used to configure a [custom tokenizer](fts5.html#tokenizers).
* The "prefix" option, used to add [prefix indexes](fts5.html#prefix_indexes)
 to an FTS5 table.
* The "content" option, used to make the FTS5 table an
 [external content or contentless table](fts5.html#external_content_and_contentless_tables).
* The "content\_rowid" option, used to set the rowid field of an
 [external content table](fts5.html#external_content_tables).
* The ["columnsize" option](fts5.html#the_columnsize_option), used to configure
 whether or not the size in tokens of each value in the FTS5 table is
 stored separately within the database.
* The ["detail" option](fts5.html#the_detail_option). This option may be used
 to reduce the size of the FTS index on disk by omitting some information
 from it.



