## 6\.3\. The 'delete' Command


 This command is only available with [external content](fts5.html#external_content_tables) and [contentless](fts5.html#contentless_tables) tables. It
is used to delete the index entries associated with a single row from the
full\-text index. This command and the [delete\-all](fts5.html#the_delete_all_command)
command are the only ways to remove entries from the full\-text index of a
contentless table.



 In order to use this command to delete a row, the text value 'delete'
must be inserted into the special column with the same name as the table.
The rowid of the row to delete is inserted into the rowid column. The
values inserted into the other columns must match the values currently
stored in the table. For example:




```
-- Insert a row with rowid=14 into the fts5 table.
INSERT INTO ft(rowid, a, b, c) VALUES(14, $a, $b, $c);

-- Remove the same row from the fts5 table.
INSERT INTO ft(ft, rowid, a, b, c) VALUES('delete', 14, $a, $b, $c);

```

 If the values "inserted" into the text columns as part of a 'delete'
command are not the same as those currently stored within the table, the
results may be unpredictable.



 The reason for this is easy to understand: When a document is inserted
into the FTS5 table, an entry is added to the full\-text index to record the
position of each token within the new document. When a document is removed,
the original data is required in order to determine the set of entries that
need to be removed from the full\-text index. So if the data supplied to FTS5
when a row is deleted using this command is different from that used to
determine the set of token instances when it was inserted, some full\-text
index entries may not be correctly deleted, or FTS5 may try to remove index
entries that do not exist. This can leave the full\-text index in an
unpredictable state, making future query results unreliable.




