## 6\.5\. The 'deletemerge' Configuration Option


 The 'deletemerge' option is only used by 
[contentless\-delete](fts5.html#contentless_delete_tables) tables. 



 When a row is deleted from a contentless\-delete table, the entries
associated with its tokens are not immediately removed from the FTS index.
Instead, a "tombstone" marker containing the rowid of the deleted row is
attached to the b\-tree that contains the row's FTS index entries. When the
b\-tree is queried, any query result rows for which there exist tombstone
markers are omitted from the results. When the b\-tree is merged with other
b\-trees, both the deleted rows and their tombstone markers are discarded.



 This option specifies a minimum percentage of rows in a b\-tree that must
have tombstone markers before the b\-tree is made eligible for merging \-
either by [automatic](#the_automerge_configuration_option) merges or
explicit user ['merge'](the_merge_command) commands \- even if it
does not meet the usual criteria as determined by the 'automerge' and 
['usermerge'](#the_usermerge_configuration_option) options.



 For example, to specify that FTS5 should consider merging a component
b\-tree after 15% of its rows have associated tombstone markers:




```
INSERT INTO ft(ft, rank) VALUES('deletemerge', 15);

```

 The default value of this option is 10\. Attempting to set it to less than 
zero restores the default value. Setting this option to 0 or to greater than
100 ensures that b\-trees are never made eligible for merging due to tombstone
markers.



