## Conflict Resolution Algorithms



SQLite defines five constraint conflict resolution algorithms
as follows:




**ROLLBACK**
When a constraint violation occurs, an immediate ROLLBACK
occurs, thus ending the current transaction, and the command aborts
with a return code of SQLITE\_CONSTRAINT. If no transaction is
active (other than the implied transaction that is created on every
command) then this algorithm works the same as ABORT.


**ABORT**
When a constraint violation occurs, the command backs out
any prior changes it might have made and aborts with a return code
of SQLITE\_CONSTRAINT. But no ROLLBACK is executed so changes
from prior commands within the same transaction
are preserved. This is the default behavior for SQLite.


**FAIL**
When a constraint violation occurs, the command aborts with a
return code SQLITE\_CONSTRAINT. But any changes to the database that
the command made prior to encountering the constraint violation
are preserved and are not backed out. For example, if an UPDATE
statement encountered a constraint violation on the 100th row that
it attempts to update, then the first 99 row changes are preserved
but change to rows 100 and beyond never occur.


**IGNORE**
When a constraint violation occurs, the one row that contains
the constraint violation is not inserted or changed. But the command
continues executing normally. Other rows before and after the row that
contained the constraint violation continue to be inserted or updated
normally. No error is returned.


**REPLACE**
When a UNIQUE constraint violation occurs, the pre\-existing row
that caused the constraint violation is removed prior to inserting
or updating the current row. Thus the insert or update always occurs.
The command continues executing normally. No error is returned.



*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


