### Manifest Typing and BLOB Support



SQLite version 2\.8 will deal with data in various formats internally,
but when writing to the disk or interacting through its API, SQLite 2\.8
always converts data into ASCII text. SQLite 3\.0, in contrast, exposes 
its internal data representations to the user and stores binary representations
to disk when appropriate. The exposing of non\-ASCII representations was
added in order to support BLOBs.




SQLite version 2\.8 had the feature that any type of data could be stored
in any table column regardless of the declared type of that column. This
feature is retained in version 3\.0, though in a slightly modified form.
Each table column will store any type of data, though columns have an
affinity for the format of data defined by their declared datatype.
When data is inserted into a column, that column will make an attempt
to convert the data format into the column's declared type. All SQL
database engines do this. The difference is that SQLite 3\.0 will 
still store the data even if a format conversion is not possible.




For example, if you have a table column declared to be of type "INTEGER"
and you try to insert a string, the column will look at the text string
and see if it looks like a number. If the string does look like a number
it is converted into a number and into an integer if the number does not
have a fractional part, and stored that way. But if the string is not
a well\-formed number it is still stored as a string. A column with a
type of "TEXT" tries to convert numbers into an ASCII\-Text representation
before storing them. But BLOBs are stored in TEXT columns as BLOBs because
you cannot in general convert a BLOB into text.




In most other SQL database engines the datatype is associated with
the table column that holds the data \- with the data container.
In SQLite 3\.0, the datatype is associated with the data itself, not
with its container.
[Paul Graham](http://www.paulgraham.com/) in his book 
*[ANSI Common Lisp](http://www.paulgraham.com/acl.html)*
calls this property "Manifest Typing".
Other writers have other definitions for the term "manifest typing",
so beware of confusion. But by whatever name, that is the datatype
model supported by SQLite 3\.0\.




Additional information about datatypes in SQLite version 3\.0 is
available
[separately](datatype3.html).



