# 1\. Introduction


A virtual table is an object that is registered with an open SQLite
[database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html). From the perspective of an SQL statement,
the virtual table object looks like any other table or view. 
But behind the scenes, queries and updates on a virtual table
invoke callback methods of the virtual table object instead of
reading and writing on the database file.



The virtual table mechanism allows an application to publish
interfaces that are accessible from SQL statements as if they were
tables. SQL statements can do almost anything to a
virtual table that they can do to a real table, with the following
exceptions:






* One cannot create a trigger on a virtual table.
* One cannot create additional indices on a virtual table. 
 (Virtual tables can have indices but that must be built into
 the virtual table implementation. Indices cannot be added
 separately using [CREATE INDEX](lang_createindex.html) statements.)
* One cannot run [ALTER TABLE ... ADD COLUMN](lang_altertable.html)
 commands against a virtual table.


Individual virtual table implementations might impose additional
constraints. For example, some virtual implementations might provide
read\-only tables. Or some virtual table implementations might allow
[INSERT](lang_insert.html) or [DELETE](lang_delete.html) but not [UPDATE](lang_update.html). Or some virtual table implementations
might limit the kinds of UPDATEs that can be made.



A virtual table might represent an in\-memory data structures. 
Or it might represent a view of data on disk that is not in the
SQLite format. Or the application might compute the content of the 
virtual table on demand.



Here are some existing and postulated uses for virtual tables:



* A [full\-text search](fts3.html) interface
* Spatial indices using [R\-Trees](rtree.html)
* Introspect the disk content of an SQLite database file
 (the [dbstat virtual table](dbstat.html))
* Read and/or write the content of a comma\-separated value (CSV)
 file
* Access the filesystem of the host computer as if it were a database table
* Enabling SQL manipulation of data in statistics packages like R


See the [list of virtual tables](vtablist.html) page for a longer list of actual
virtual table implementations.




