### 2\.1\.3\.  WITHOUT ROWID Virtual Tables


Beginning with SQLite [version 3\.14\.0](releaselog/3_14.html) (2016\-08\-08\), 
the CREATE TABLE statement that
is passed into [sqlite3\_declare\_vtab()](c3ref/declare_vtab.html) may contain a [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) clause.
This is useful for cases where the virtual table rows 
cannot easily be mapped into unique integers. A CREATE TABLE
statement that includes WITHOUT ROWID must define one or more columns as
the PRIMARY KEY. Every column of the PRIMARY KEY must individually be
NOT NULL and all columns for each row must be collectively unique.



Note that SQLite does not enforce the PRIMARY KEY for a WITHOUT ROWID
virtual table. Enforcement is the responsibility of the underlying
virtual table implementation. But SQLite does assume that the PRIMARY KEY
constraint is valid \- that the identified columns really are UNIQUE and
NOT NULL \- and it uses that assumption to optimize queries against the
virtual table.



The rowid column is not accessible on a
WITHOUT ROWID virtual table (of course).



The [xUpdate](vtab.html#xupdate) method was originally designed around having a
[ROWID](lang_createtable.html#rowid) as a single value. The [xUpdate](vtab.html#xupdate) method has been expanded to
accommodate an arbitrary PRIMARY KEY in place of the ROWID, but the
PRIMARY KEY must still be only one column. For this reason, SQLite
will reject any WITHOUT ROWID virtual table that has more than one
PRIMARY KEY column and a non\-NULL xUpdate method.




