## 1\.1\. Usage


A virtual table is created using a [CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE](lang_createvtab.html) statement.

**[create\-virtual\-table\-stmt:](syntax/create-virtual-table-stmt.html)**
hide








CREATE



VIRTUAL



TABLE



IF



NOT



EXISTS

schema\-name



.



table\-name

USING



module\-name



(



module\-argument



)




,

























The CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE statement creates a new table
called table\-name derived from the class
module\-name. The module\-name
is the name that is registered for the virtual table by
the [sqlite3\_create\_module()](c3ref/create_module.html) interface.




```
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE tablename USING modulename;

```

One can also provide comma\-separated arguments to the module following 
the module name:




```
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE tablename USING modulename(arg1, arg2, ...);

```

The format of the arguments to the module is very general. Each 
module\-argument
may contain keywords, string literals, identifiers, numbers, and 
punctuation. Each module\-argument is passed as 
written (as text) into the
[constructor method](vtab.html#xcreate) of the virtual table implementation 
when the virtual 
table is created and that constructor is responsible for parsing and 
interpreting the arguments. The argument syntax is sufficiently general 
that a virtual table implementation can, if it wants to, interpret its
arguments as [column definitions](lang_createtable.html#tablecoldef) in an ordinary [CREATE TABLE](lang_createtable.html) statement. 
The implementation could also impose some other interpretation on the 
arguments.



Once a virtual table has been created, it can be used like any other 
table with the exceptions noted above and imposed by specific virtual
table implementations. A virtual table is destroyed using the ordinary
[DROP TABLE](lang_droptable.html) syntax.



