### 1\.1\.2\. Eponymous virtual tables


Some virtual tables exist automatically in the "main" schema of
every database connection in which their
module is registered, even without a [CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE](lang_createvtab.html) statement.
Such virtual tables are called "eponymous virtual tables".
To use an eponymous virtual table, simply use the 
module name as if it were a table.
Eponymous virtual tables exist in the "main" schema only, so they will
not work if prefixed with a different schema name.



An example of an eponymous virtual table is the [dbstat virtual table](dbstat.html).
To use the dbstat virtual table as an eponymous virtual table, 
simply query against the "dbstat"
module name, as if it were an ordinary table. (Note that SQLite
must be compiled with the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_DBSTAT\_VTAB](compile.html#enable_dbstat_vtab) option to include
the dbstat virtual table in the build.)




```
SELECT * FROM dbstat;

```

A virtual table is eponymous if its [xCreate](vtab.html#xcreate) method is the exact same
function as the [xConnect](vtab.html#xconnect) method, or if the [xCreate](vtab.html#xcreate) method is NULL.
The [xCreate](vtab.html#xcreate) method is called when a virtual table is first created
using the [CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE](lang_createvtab.html) statement. The [xConnect](vtab.html#xconnect) method 
is invoked whenever
a database connection attaches to or reparses a schema. When these two methods
are the same, that indicates that the virtual table has no persistent
state that needs to be created and destroyed.




