## 2\.13\. The xUpdate Method



```
int (*xUpdate)(
  sqlite3_vtab *pVTab,
  int argc,
  sqlite3_value **argv,
  sqlite_int64 *pRowid
);

```

All changes to a virtual table are made using the xUpdate method.
This one method can be used to insert, delete, or update.



The argc parameter specifies the number of entries in the argv array. 
The value of argc will be 1 for a pure delete operation or N\+2 for an insert
or replace or update where N is the number of columns in the table. 
In the previous sentence, N includes any hidden columns.



Every argv entry will have a non\-NULL value in C but may contain the 
SQL value NULL. In other words, it is always true that
argv\[i]!\=0 for **i** between 0 and argc\-1.
However, it might be the case that
sqlite3\_value\_type(argv\[i])\=\=SQLITE\_NULL.



The argv\[0] parameter is the [rowid](lang_createtable.html#rowid) of a row in the virtual table 
to be deleted. If argv\[0] is an SQL NULL, then no deletion occurs.



The argv\[1] parameter is the rowid of a new row to be inserted 
into the virtual table. If argv\[1] is an SQL NULL, then the implementation 
must choose a rowid for the newly inserted row. Subsequent argv\[] 
entries contain values of the columns of the virtual table, in the 
order that the columns were declared. The number of columns will
match the table declaration that the [xConnect](vtab.html#xconnect) or [xCreate](vtab.html#xcreate) method made 
using the [sqlite3\_declare\_vtab()](c3ref/declare_vtab.html) call. All hidden columns are included.



When doing an insert without a rowid (argc\>1, argv\[1] is an SQL NULL),
on a virtual table that uses ROWID (but not on a [WITHOUT ROWID virtual table](vtab.html#worid)),
the implementation must set \*pRowid to the rowid of the newly inserted row; 
this will become the value returned by the [sqlite3\_last\_insert\_rowid()](c3ref/last_insert_rowid.html)
function. Setting this value in all the other cases is a harmless no\-op;
the SQLite engine ignores the \*pRowid return value if argc\=\=1 or 
argv\[1] is not an SQL NULL.



Each call to xUpdate will fall into one of cases shown below.
Not that references to **argv\[i]** mean the SQL value
held within the argv\[i] object, not the argv\[i]
object itself.




> **argc \= 1   
>  argv\[0] ≠ NULL**
> 
> DELETE: The single row with rowid or PRIMARY KEY equal to argv\[0] is deleted. 
> No insert occurs.
> 
> 
> 
> **argc \> 1   
>  argv\[0] \= NULL**
> 
> INSERT: A new row is inserted with column values taken from
> argv\[2] and following. In a rowid virtual table, if argv\[1] is an SQL NULL,
> then a new unique rowid is generated automatically. The argv\[1] will be NULL
> for a [WITHOUT ROWID virtual table](vtab.html#worid), in which case the implementation should
> take the PRIMARY KEY value from the appropriate column in argv\[2] and following.
> 
> 
> 
> **argc \> 1   
>  argv\[0] ≠ NULL   
>  argv\[0] \= argv\[1]**
> 
> UPDATE:
> The row with rowid or PRIMARY KEY argv\[0] is updated with new values 
> in argv\[2] and following parameters.
> 
> 
> 
> **argc \> 1   
>  argv\[0] ≠ NULL   
>  argv\[0] ≠ argv\[1]**
> 
> UPDATE with rowid or PRIMARY KEY change:
> The row with rowid or PRIMARY KEY argv\[0] is updated with 
> the rowid or PRIMARY KEY in argv\[1] 
> and new values in argv\[2] and following parameters. This will occur 
> when an SQL statement updates a rowid, as in the statement:
> 
> 
> 
> > [UPDATE](lang_update.html) table SET rowid\=rowid\+1 WHERE ...;


The xUpdate method must return [SQLITE\_OK](rescode.html#ok) if and only if it is
successful. If a failure occurs, the xUpdate must return an appropriate
[error code](rescode.html). On a failure, the pVTab\-\>zErrMsg element may optionally
be replaced with error message text stored in memory allocated from SQLite 
using functions such as [sqlite3\_mprintf()](c3ref/mprintf.html) or [sqlite3\_malloc()](c3ref/free.html).



If the xUpdate method violates some constraint of the virtual table
(including, but not limited to, attempting to store a value of the wrong 
datatype, attempting to store a value that is too
large or too small, or attempting to change a read\-only value) then the
xUpdate must fail with an appropriate [error code](rescode.html).



If the xUpdate method is performing an UPDATE, then
[sqlite3\_value\_nochange(X)](c3ref/value_blob.html) can be used to discover which columns
of the virtual table were actually modified by the UPDATE
statement. The [sqlite3\_value\_nochange(X)](c3ref/value_blob.html) interface returns
true for columns that do not change.
On every UPDATE, SQLite will first invoke
[xColumn](vtab.html#xcolumn) separately for each unchanging column in the table to 
obtain the value for that column. The [xColumn](vtab.html#xcolumn) method can
check to see if the column is unchanged at the SQL level
by invoking [sqlite3\_vtab\_nochange()](c3ref/vtab_nochange.html). If [xColumn](vtab.html#xcolumn) sees that
the column is not being modified, it should return without setting 
a result using one of the [sqlite3\_result\_xxxxx()](c3ref/result_blob.html)
interfaces. Only in that case [sqlite3\_value\_nochange()](c3ref/value_blob.html) will be
true within the xUpdate method. If [xColumn](vtab.html#xcolumn) does
invoke one or more [sqlite3\_result\_xxxxx()](c3ref/result_blob.html)
interfaces, then SQLite understands that as a change in the value
of the column and the [sqlite3\_value\_nochange()](c3ref/value_blob.html) call for that
column within xUpdate will return false.



There might be one or more [sqlite3\_vtab\_cursor](c3ref/vtab_cursor.html) objects open and in use 
on the virtual table instance and perhaps even on the row of the virtual
table when the xUpdate method is invoked. The implementation of
xUpdate must be prepared for attempts to delete or modify rows of the table
out from other existing cursors. If the virtual table cannot accommodate
such changes, the xUpdate method must return an [error code](rescode.html).



The xUpdate method is optional.
If the xUpdate pointer in the [sqlite3\_module](c3ref/module.html) for a virtual table
is a NULL pointer, then the virtual table is read\-only.





