## 2\.2\. DEFERRED, IMMEDIATE, and EXCLUSIVE transactions



Transactions can be DEFERRED, IMMEDIATE, or EXCLUSIVE.
The default transaction behavior is DEFERRED.




DEFERRED means that the transaction does not actually
start until the database is first accessed. Internally,
the BEGIN DEFERRED statement merely sets a flag on the database
connection that turns off the automatic commit that would normally
occur when the last statement finishes. This causes the transaction
that is automatically started to persist until an explicit
COMMIT or ROLLBACK or until a rollback is provoked by an error
or an ON CONFLICT ROLLBACK clause. If the first statement after
BEGIN DEFERRED is a SELECT, then a read transaction is started.
Subsequent write statements will upgrade the transaction to a
write transaction if possible, or return SQLITE\_BUSY. If the
first statement after BEGIN DEFERRED is a write statement, then
a write transaction is started.




IMMEDIATE causes the database connection to start a new write
immediately, without waiting for a write statement. The
BEGIN IMMEDIATE might fail with [SQLITE\_BUSY](rescode.html#busy) if another write
transaction is already active on another database connection.




EXCLUSIVE is similar to IMMEDIATE in that a write transaction
is started immediately. EXCLUSIVE and IMMEDIATE are the same
in [WAL mode](wal.html), but in other journaling modes, EXCLUSIVE prevents
other database connections from reading the database while the
transaction is underway.



