# 3\. Response To Errors Within A Transaction


 If certain kinds of errors occur within a transaction, the
transaction may or may not be rolled back automatically. The
errors that can cause an automatic rollback include:


* [SQLITE\_FULL](rescode.html#full): database or disk full
* [SQLITE\_IOERR](rescode.html#ioerr): disk I/O error
* [SQLITE\_BUSY](rescode.html#busy): database in use by another process
* [SQLITE\_NOMEM](rescode.html#nomem): out of memory



For all of these errors, SQLite attempts to undo just the one statement
it was working on and leave changes from prior statements within the
same transaction intact and continue with the transaction. However,
depending on the statement being evaluated and the point at which the
error occurs, it might be necessary for SQLite to rollback and
cancel the entire transaction. An application can tell which
course of action SQLite took by using the
[sqlite3\_get\_autocommit()](c3ref/get_autocommit.html) C\-language interface.


It is recommended that applications respond to the errors
listed above by explicitly issuing a ROLLBACK command. If the
transaction has already been rolled back automatically
by the error response, then the ROLLBACK command will fail with an
error, but no harm is caused by this.


Future versions of SQLite may extend the list of errors which
might cause automatic transaction rollback. Future versions of
SQLite might change the error response. In particular, we may
choose to simplify the interface in future versions of SQLite by
causing the errors above to force an unconditional rollback.


*This page last modified on [2023\-03\-14 14:31:07](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


