# 3\. Using the R\*Tree Module



The SQLite R\*Tree module is implemented as a
[virtual table](c3ref/create_module.html). Each R\*Tree index is a
virtual table with an odd number of columns between 3 and 11\.
The first column is always a 64\-bit signed integer primary key.
The other columns are pairs, one pair per dimension, containing the
minimum and maximum values for that dimension, respectively.
A 1\-dimensional R\*Tree thus has 3 columns.
A 2\-dimensional R\*Tree has 5 columns.
A 3\-dimensional R\*Tree has 7 columns.
A 4\-dimensional R\*Tree has 9 columns.
And a 5\-dimensional R\*Tree has 11 columns. The SQLite R\*Tree implementation
does not support R\*Trees wider than 5 dimensions.




The first column of an SQLite R\*Tree is similar to an integer primary
key column of a normal SQLite table. It may only store a 64\-bit signed
integer value. Inserting a NULL value into this column causes SQLite
to automatically generate a new unique primary key value. If an attempt
is made to insert any other non\-integer value into this column,
the r\-tree module silently converts it to an integer before writing it
into the database.



The min/max\-value pair columns are stored as 32\-bit floating point values for
"rtree" virtual tables or as 32\-bit signed integers in "rtree\_i32" virtual
tables. Unlike regular SQLite tables which can store data in a variety of
datatypes and formats, the R\*Tree rigidly enforce these storage types.
If any other type of value is inserted into such a column, the r\-tree
module silently converts it to the required type before writing the
new record to the database.



