## Status Parameters




> ```
> 
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_MEMORY_USED          0
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_PAGECACHE_USED       1
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_PAGECACHE_OVERFLOW   2
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_SCRATCH_USED         3  /* NOT USED */
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_SCRATCH_OVERFLOW     4  /* NOT USED */
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_MALLOC_SIZE          5
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_PARSER_STACK         6
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_PAGECACHE_SIZE       7
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_SCRATCH_SIZE         8  /* NOT USED */
> #define SQLITE_STATUS_MALLOC_COUNT         9
> 
> ```



These integer constants designate various run\-time status parameters
that can be returned by [sqlite3\_status()](../c3ref/status.html).




SQLITE\_STATUS\_MEMORY\_USED
This parameter is the current amount of memory checked out
using [sqlite3\_malloc()](../c3ref/free.html), either directly or indirectly. The
figure includes calls made to [sqlite3\_malloc()](../c3ref/free.html) by the application
and internal memory usage by the SQLite library. Auxiliary page\-cache
memory controlled by [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PAGECACHE](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpagecache) is not included in
this parameter. The amount returned is the sum of the allocation
sizes as reported by the xSize method in [sqlite3\_mem\_methods](../c3ref/mem_methods.html).



SQLITE\_STATUS\_MALLOC\_SIZE
This parameter records the largest memory allocation request
handed to [sqlite3\_malloc()](../c3ref/free.html) or [sqlite3\_realloc()](../c3ref/free.html) (or their
internal equivalents). Only the value returned in the
\*pHighwater parameter to [sqlite3\_status()](../c3ref/status.html) is of interest.
The value written into the \*pCurrent parameter is undefined.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_MALLOC\_COUNT
This parameter records the number of separate memory allocations
currently checked out.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_PAGECACHE\_USED
This parameter returns the number of pages used out of the
[pagecache memory allocator](../malloc.html#pagecache) that was configured using
[SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PAGECACHE](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpagecache). The
value returned is in pages, not in bytes.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_PAGECACHE\_OVERFLOW
This parameter returns the number of bytes of page cache
allocation which could not be satisfied by the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PAGECACHE](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpagecache)
buffer and where forced to overflow to [sqlite3\_malloc()](../c3ref/free.html). The
returned value includes allocations that overflowed because they
where too large (they were larger than the "sz" parameter to
[SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PAGECACHE](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpagecache)) and allocations that overflowed because
no space was left in the page cache.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_PAGECACHE\_SIZE
This parameter records the largest memory allocation request
handed to the [pagecache memory allocator](../malloc.html#pagecache). Only the value returned in the
\*pHighwater parameter to [sqlite3\_status()](../c3ref/status.html) is of interest.
The value written into the \*pCurrent parameter is undefined.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_SCRATCH\_USED
No longer used.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_SCRATCH\_OVERFLOW
No longer used.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_SCRATCH\_SIZE
No longer used.



SQLITE\_STATUS\_PARSER\_STACK
The \*pHighwater parameter records the deepest parser stack.
The \*pCurrent value is undefined. The \*pHighwater value is only
meaningful if SQLite is compiled with [YYTRACKMAXSTACKDEPTH](../compile.html#yytrackmaxstackdepth).



New status parameters may be added from time to time.


See also lists of
 [Objects](../c3ref/objlist.html),
 [Constants](../c3ref/constlist.html), and
 [Functions](../c3ref/funclist.html).


