# 2\. Background



In SQLite, table rows normally have a 64\-bit signed integer [ROWID](lang_createtable.html#rowid)
which is unique among all rows in the same table.
([WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) tables are the exception.)




You can access the ROWID of an SQLite table using one of the special column
names ROWID, \_ROWID\_, or OID.
Except if you declare an ordinary table column to use one of those special
names, then the use of that name will refer to the declared column not
to the internal ROWID.




If a table contains a column of type [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid), then that
column becomes an alias for the ROWID. You can then access the ROWID
using any of four different names, the original three names described above
or the name given to the [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid) column. All these names are
aliases for one another and work equally well in any context.




When a new row is inserted into an SQLite table, the ROWID can either
be specified as part of the INSERT statement or it can be assigned
automatically by the database engine. To specify a ROWID manually,
just include it in the list of values to be inserted. For example:




```
CREATE TABLE test1(a INT, b TEXT);
INSERT INTO test1(rowid, a, b) VALUES(123, 5, 'hello');

```


If no ROWID is specified on the insert, or if the specified ROWID has a value
of NULL, then an appropriate ROWID is created
automatically. The usual algorithm is to give the newly created row
a ROWID that is one larger than the largest ROWID in the table prior
to the insert. If the table is initially empty, then a ROWID of 1 is
used. If the largest ROWID is equal to the largest possible integer
(9223372036854775807\) then the database
engine starts picking positive candidate ROWIDs at random until it finds one
that is not previously used.
If no unused ROWID can be found after a reasonable number of attempts,
the insert operation fails with an [SQLITE\_FULL](rescode.html#full) error.
If no negative ROWID values are inserted explicitly, then automatically 
generated ROWID values will always be greater than zero.




The normal ROWID selection algorithm described above
will generate monotonically increasing
unique ROWIDs as long as you never use the maximum ROWID value and you never
delete the entry in the table with the largest ROWID. 
If you ever delete rows or if you ever create a row with the maximum possible
ROWID, then ROWIDs from previously deleted rows might be reused when creating
new rows and newly created ROWIDs might not be in strictly ascending order.



