## 7\.1\. Statement versus branch coverage


There are many ways to measure test coverage. The most popular
metric is "statement coverage". When you hear someone say that their
program as "XX% test coverage" without further explanation, they usually
mean statement coverage. Statement coverage measures what percentage
of lines of code are executed at least once by the test suite.


Branch coverage is more rigorous than statement coverage. Branch
coverage measures the number of machine\-code branch instructions that
are evaluated at least once on both directions.


To illustrate the difference between statement coverage and
branch coverage, consider the following hypothetical
line of C code:



```
if( a>b && c!=25 ){ d++; }

```

Such a line of C code might generate a dozen separate machine code
instructions. If any one of those instructions is ever evaluated, then
we say that the statement has been tested. So, for example, it might
be the case that the conditional expression is
always false and the "d" variable is
never incremented. Even so, statement coverage counts this line of
code as having been tested.


Branch coverage is more strict. With branch coverage, each test and
each subblock within the statement is considered separately. In order
to achieve 100% branch coverage in the example above, there must be at
least three test cases:


* a\<\=b
* a\>b \&\& c\=\=25
* a\>b \&\& c!\=25


Any one of the above test cases would provide 100% statement coverage
but all three are required for 100% branch coverage. Generally speaking,
100% branch coverage implies 100% statement coverage, but the converse is
not true. To reemphasize, the
[TH3](th3.html) test harness for SQLite provides the stronger form of
test coverage \- 100% branch test coverage.



