# 10\. Checklists


The SQLite developers use an on\-line checklist to coordinate testing
activity and to verify that all tests pass prior each SQLite release.
[Past checklists](https://www.sqlite.org/checklists/index.html)
are retained for historical reference.
(The checklists are read\-only for anonymous internet viewers, but
developers can log in and update checklist items in their web
browsers.)
The use of checklists for SQLite testing and other development activities
is inspired by *[The Checklist Manifesto](http://atulgawande.com/book/the-checklist-manifesto/)*.


The latest checklists contain approximately 200 items that are
individually verified for each release. Some checklist items only take
a few seconds to verify and mark off. Others involve test suites
that run for many hours.


The release checklist is not automated: developers run each item on
the checklist manually. We find that it is important to keep a human in
the loop. Sometimes problems are found while running a checklist item
even though the test itself passed. It is important to have a human
reviewing the test output at the highest level, and constantly asking
"Is this really right?"


The release checklist is continuously evolving. As new problems or
potential problems are discovered, new checklist items are added to
make sure those problems do not appear in subsequent releases. The
release checklist has proven to be an invaluable tool in helping to
ensure that nothing is overlooked during the release process.



