## 3\.1\. Standard Unix VFSes



Unix builds come with multiple built\-in VFSes. The default VFS
for unix is called "unix" and is used in most applications.
Other VFSes that might be found in unix (depending on compile\-time
options) include:



1. **unix\-dotfile** \- uses dot\-file locking rather than
 POSIX advisory locks.
2. **unix\-excl** \- obtains and holds an exclusive lock on
 database files, preventing other processes from accessing the
 database. Also keeps the [wal\-index](walformat.html#shm) in heap rather than in
 shared memory.
3. **unix\-none** \- all file locking operations are no\-ops.
4. **unix\-namedsem** \- uses named semaphores for file locking.
 VXWorks only.



The various unix VFSes differ only in the way they handle file locking \-
they share most of their implementation in common with one another and
are all located in the same SQLite source file: 
[os\_unix.c](https://www.sqlite.org/src/doc/trunk/src/os_unix.c).
Note that except for "unix" and "unix\-excl", the various unix VFSes all
use incompatible locking implementations. If two processes are accessing
the same SQLite database using different unix VFSes, they may
not see each others locks and may end up interfering with one another,
resulting in database corruption. The "unix\-none" VFS in particular
does no locking at all and will easily result in database corruption if
used by two or more database connections at the same time.
Programmers are encouraged to use only "unix" or "unix\-excl" unless
there is a compelling reason to do otherwise.



