## 7\.2\.  Exclusive Access Mode


SQLite version 3\.3\.14 adds the concept of "Exclusive Access Mode".
In exclusive access mode, SQLite retains the exclusive
database lock at the conclusion of each transaction. This prevents
other processes from accessing the database, but in many deployments
only a single process is using a database so this is not a
serious problem. The advantage of exclusive access mode is that
disk I/O can be reduced in three ways:


1. It is not necessary to increment the change counter in the
database header for transactions after the first transaction. This
will often save a write of page one to both the rollback
journal and the main database file.
2. No other processes can change the database so there is never
a need to check the change counter and clear the user\-space cache
at the beginning of a transaction.
3. Each transaction can be committed by overwriting the rollback
journal header with zeros rather than deleting the journal file.
This avoids having to modify the directory entry for the journal file
and it avoids having to deallocate disk sectors associated with the
journal. Furthermore, the next transaction will overwrite existing
journal file content rather than append new content and on most systems
overwriting is much faster than appending.


The third optimization, zeroing the journal file header rather than
deleting the rollback journal file,
does not depend on holding an exclusive lock at all times.
This optimization can be set independently of exclusive lock mode
using the [journal\_mode pragma](pragma.html#pragma_journal_mode)
as described in [section 7\.6](#section_7_6) below.



