# 14\. Boolean Expressions


The SQL language features several contexts where an expression is
evaluated and the result converted to a boolean (true or false) value. These
contexts are:

 

* the WHERE clause of a SELECT, UPDATE or DELETE statement,
* the ON or USING clause of a join in a SELECT statement,
* the HAVING clause of a SELECT statement,
* the WHEN clause of an SQL trigger, and
* the WHEN clause or clauses of some CASE expressions.


To convert the results of an SQL expression to a boolean value, SQLite
first casts the result to a NUMERIC value in the same way as a
[CAST expression](lang_expr.html#castexpr). A numeric zero value (integer value 0 or real
value 0\.0\) is considered to be false. A NULL value is still NULL.
All other values are considered true.



For example, the values NULL, 0\.0, 0, 'english' and '0' are all considered
to be false. Values 1, 1\.0, 0\.1, \-0\.1 and '1english' are considered to
be true.



Beginning with SQLite 3\.23\.0 (2018\-04\-02\), SQLite recognizes the
identifiers "TRUE" and "FALSE" as boolean literals, if and only if those
identifiers are not already used for some other meaning. If there already
exists columns or tables or other objects named TRUE or FALSE, then for
the sake of backwards compatibility, the TRUE and FALSE identifiers refer
to those other objects, not to the boolean values.



The boolean identifiers TRUE and FALSE are usually just aliases for
the integer values 1 and 0, respectively. However, if TRUE or FALSE
occur on the right\-hand side of an IS operator, then the IS operator
evaluates the left\-hand operand as a boolean value and returns an appropriate
answer.




