# 15\. Functions


SQLite supports many [simple](lang_corefunc.html), [aggregate](lang_aggfunc.html),
and [window](windowfunctions.html)
SQL functions. For presentation purposes, simple functions are further
subdivided into [core functions](lang_corefunc.html), [date\-time functions](lang_datefunc.html),
[math functions](lang_mathfunc.html), and [JSON functions](json1.html).
Applications can add new functions, written in C/C\+\+, using the
[sqlite3\_create\_function()](c3ref/create_function.html) interface.




The main expression bubble diagram above shows a single syntax for
all function invocations. But this is merely to simplify the expression
bubble diagram. In reality, each type of function has a slightly different
syntax, shown below. The function invocation syntax shown in the main
expression bubble diagram is the union of the three syntaxes shown here:

**[simple\-function\-invocation:](syntax/simple-function-invocation.html)**







simple\-func



(



expr



)




,







\*






**[aggregate\-function\-invocation:](syntax/aggregate-function-invocation.html)**







aggregate\-func



(





DISTINCT







expr



)



filter\-clause












,





\*











ORDER



BY



ordering\-term

,








**[window\-function\-invocation:](syntax/window-function-invocation.html)**







window\-func



(



expr



)



filter\-clause



OVER



window\-name







window\-defn


,







\*









The OVER clause is required for [window functions](windowfunctions.html) and is prohibited
otherwise. The DISTINCT keyword and the ORDER BY clause is only allowed
in [aggregate functions](lang_aggfunc.html).
The FILTER clause may not appear on a [simple function](lang_corefunc.html).



It is possible to have an aggregate function with the same name as a
simple function, as long as the number of arguments for the two forms of the
function are different. For example, the [max()](lang_aggfunc.html#max_agg) function with a
single argument is an aggregate and the [max()](lang_corefunc.html#max_scalar) function with two or more
arguments is a simple function. Aggregate functions can usually also
be used as window functions.


*This page last modified on [2024\-02\-27 20:24:47](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 




