# 2\. Operators, and Parse\-Affecting Attributes


SQLite understands these operators, listed in precedence1 order  

(top to bottom / highest to lowest):






| **Operators 2** |
| --- |
| \~ \[expr]    \+ \[expr]    \- \[expr] |
| \[expr] COLLATE (collation\-name) 3 |
| \|\|   \-\>   \-\>\> |
| \*   /   % |
| \+   \- |
| \&  \|   \<\<  \>\> |
| \[expr] ESCAPE \[escape\-character\-expr] 4 |
| \<  \>  \<\=  \>\= |
| \=  \=\=  \<\>  !\=  IS   IS NOT  IS DISTINCT FROM   IS NOT DISTINCT FROM \[expr] BETWEEN5 \[expr] AND \[expr]  IN5  MATCH5  LIKE5  REGEXP5  GLOB5 \[expr] ISNULL  \[expr] NOTNULL   \[expr] NOT NULL |
| NOT \[expr] |
| AND |
| OR |





1. Operators shown within the same table cell share precedence.
2. "\[expr]" denotes operand locations for non\-binary operators.  

   Operators with no "\[expr]" adjunct are binary and left\-associative.
3. The COLLATE clause (with its collation\-name) acts as a single postfix operator.
4. The ESCAPE clause (with its escape character) acts as a single postfix operator.  

   It can only bind to a preceding \[expr] LIKE \[expr] expression.
5. Each keyword in (BETWEEN IN GLOB LIKE MATCH REGEXP) may be prefixed  

   by NOT, retaining the bare operator's precedence and associativity.



The COLLATE operator is a unary postfix
operator that assigns a [collating sequence](datatype3.html#collation) to an expression.
The collating sequence set by the COLLATE operator overrides the
collating sequence determined by the COLLATE clause in a table
[column definition](lang_createtable.html#tablecoldef).
See the [detailed discussion on collating sequences](datatype3.html#collation)
in the [Datatype In SQLite3](datatype3.html) document for additional information.



The unary operator \+ is a no\-op. It can be applied
to strings, numbers, blobs or NULL and it always returns a result
with the same value as the operand.


Note that there are two variations of the equals and not equals
operators. Equals can be either

\= or \=\=.
The not\-equal operator can be either
!\= or \<\>.
The \|\| operator is "concatenate" \- it joins together
the two strings of its operands.
The \-\> and \-\>\> operators are "extract";
they extract the RHS component from the LHS.
For an example, see
[JSON subcomponent extraction](json1.html#jptr).




The % operator [casts](lang_expr.html#castexpr) both of its operands to type
INTEGER and then computes the remainder after dividing the left integer
by the right integer. The other arithmetic operators perform integer
arithmetic if both operands are integers and no overflow would result,
or floating point arithmetic, per IEEE Standard 754, if either operand
is a real value or integer arithmetic would produce an overflow.
Integer divide yields an integer result, truncated toward zero.



The result of any binary operator is either a numeric value or
NULL, except for the \|\| concatenation operator,
and the \-\> and \-\>\> extract operators
which evaluate to either NULL or a text value.


All operators generally evaluate to NULL when any operand is NULL,
with specific exceptions as stated below. This is in accordance with
the SQL92 standard.


 When paired with NULL:  

  AND evaluates to 0 (false) when
the other operand is false; and  

  OR evaluates to 1 (true)
when the other operand is true.




The IS and IS NOT operators work
like \= and !\= except when one or both of the
operands are NULL. In this case, if both operands are NULL, then the
IS operator evaluates to 1 (true) and the IS NOT operator evaluates
to 0 (false). If one operand is NULL and the other is not, then the
IS operator evaluates to 0 (false) and the IS NOT operator is 1 (true).
It is not possible for an IS or IS NOT expression to evaluate to NULL.



The IS NOT DISTINCT FROM operator is an alternative spelling
for the IS operator.
Likewise, the IS DISTINCT FROM operator means the same thing
as IS NOT. Standard SQL does not support the compact IS and IS NOT
notation. Those compact forms are an SQLite extension. You have to use
the prolix and much less readable IS NOT DISTINCT FROM and
IS DISTINCT FROM operators on other SQL database engines.




