# 3\. Literal Values (Constants)



A literal value represents a constant.
Literal values may be integers, floating point numbers, strings,
BLOBs, or NULLs.



The syntax for integer and floating point literals (collectively
"numeric literals") is shown by the following diagram:


**[numeric\-literal:](syntax/numeric-literal.html)**







digit

\_










.









E





e


digit

\_













.



digit

\_













\-



digit

\_








\+

















0x





0X

hexdigit

\_


















If a numeric literal has a decimal point or an exponentiation
clause or if it is less than \-9223372036854775808 or
greater than 9223372036854775807, then it is a floating point literal.
Otherwise is it is an integer literal.
The "E" character that begins the exponentiation
clause of a floating point literal can be either upper or lower case.
The "." character is always used
as the decimal point even if the locale setting specifies "," for
this role \- the use of "," for the decimal point would result in
syntactic ambiguity.




Beginning in SQLite version 3\.46\.0 (2024\-05\-23\), a single extra underscore ("\_")
character can be added between any two digits. The underscores are purely
for human readability and are ignored by SQLite.




Hexadecimal integer literals follow the C\-language notation of
"0x" or "0X" followed by hexadecimal digits.
For example, 0x1234 means the same as 4660
and 0x8000000000000000 means the same as \-9223372036854775808\.
 Hexadecimal integer literals are interpreted as 64\-bit
two's\-complement integers and are thus limited
to sixteen significant digits of precision.
Support for hexadecimal integers was added to SQLite
version 3\.8\.6 (2014\-08\-15\).
For backwards compatibility, the "0x" hexadecimal integer
notation is only understood by the SQL language parser, not by the
type conversions routines.
String variables that
contain text formatted like hexadecimal integers are not
interpreted as hexadecimal integers when coercing the string value
into an integer due to a [CAST expression](lang_expr.html#castexpr) or for a [column affinity](datatype3.html#affinity)
transformation or prior to performing a numeric operation or for
any other run\-time conversions. When coercing a
string value in the format of a hexadecimal integer into an integer
value, the conversion process stops when the 'x' character is seen
so the resulting integer value is always zero.
SQLite only understands the hexadecimal integer notation when it
appears in the SQL statement text, not when it appears as
part of the content of the database.



 A string constant is formed by enclosing the
string in single quotes ('). A single quote within the string can
be encoded by putting two single quotes in a row \- as in Pascal.
C\-style escapes using the backslash character are not supported because
they are not standard SQL.



 BLOB literals are string literals containing hexadecimal data and
preceded by a single "x" or "X" character. Example: X'53514C697465'




A literal value can also be the token "NULL".




