# 4\. Parameters



A "variable" or "parameter" token
specifies a placeholder in the expression for a
value that is filled in at runtime using the
[sqlite3\_bind()](c3ref/bind_blob.html) family of C/C\+\+ interfaces.
Parameters can take several forms:




> | **?***NNN* |  | A question mark followed by a number *NNN* holds a spot for the NNN\-th parameter. NNN must be between 1 and [SQLITE\_MAX\_VARIABLE\_NUMBER](limits.html#max_variable_number). |
> | --- | --- | --- |
> | **?** |  | A question mark that is not followed by a number creates a parameter with a number one greater than the largest parameter number already assigned. If this means the parameter number is greater than [SQLITE\_MAX\_VARIABLE\_NUMBER](limits.html#max_variable_number), it is an error. This parameter format is provided for compatibility with other database engines. But because it is easy to miscount the question marks, the use of this parameter format is discouraged. Programmers are encouraged to use one of the symbolic formats below or the ?NNN format above instead. |
> | **:***AAAA* |  | A colon followed by an identifier name holds a spot for a [named parameter](c3ref/bind_parameter_name.html) with the name :AAAA. Named parameters are also numbered. The number assigned is one greater than the largest parameter number already assigned. If this means the parameter would be assigned a number greater than [SQLITE\_MAX\_VARIABLE\_NUMBER](limits.html#max_variable_number), it is an error. To avoid confusion, it is best to avoid mixing named and numbered parameters. |
> | **@***AAAA* |  | An "at" sign works exactly like a colon, except that the name of the parameter created is @AAAA. |
> | **$***AAAA* |  | A dollar\-sign followed by an identifier name also holds a spot for a named parameter with the name $AAAA. The identifier name in this case can include one or more occurrences of "::" and a suffix enclosed in "(...)" containing any text at all. This syntax is the form of a variable name in the [Tcl programming language](http://www.tcl-lang.org/). The presence of this syntax results from the fact that SQLite is really a [Tcl extension](tclsqlite.html) that has escaped into the wild. |


Parameters that are not assigned values using
[sqlite3\_bind()](c3ref/bind_blob.html) are treated
as NULL. The [sqlite3\_bind\_parameter\_index()](c3ref/bind_parameter_index.html) interface can be used
to translate a symbolic parameter name into its equivalent numeric index.


The maximum parameter number is set at compile\-time by
the [SQLITE\_MAX\_VARIABLE\_NUMBER](limits.html#max_variable_number) macro. An individual [database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html)
D can reduce its maximum parameter number below the compile\-time maximum
using the [sqlite3\_limit](c3ref/limit.html)(D, [SQLITE\_LIMIT\_VARIABLE\_NUMBER](c3ref/c_limit_attached.html#sqlitelimitvariablenumber),...) interface.




