# 5\. The LIKE, GLOB, REGEXP, MATCH, and extract operators


The LIKE operator does a pattern matching comparison. The operand
to the right of the LIKE operator contains the pattern and the left hand
operand contains the string to match against the pattern.

A percent symbol ("%") in the LIKE pattern matches any
sequence of zero or more characters in the string. An underscore
("\_") in the LIKE pattern matches any single character in the
string. Any other character matches itself or its lower/upper case
equivalent (i.e. case\-insensitive matching).

Important Note: SQLite only
understands upper/lower case for ASCII characters by default. The
LIKE operator is case sensitive by default for unicode characters that are
beyond the ASCII range. For example,
the expression **'a' LIKE 'A'**
is TRUE but **'æ' LIKE 'Æ'** is FALSE.
The ICU extension to SQLite includes an enhanced version of the
LIKE operator that does case folding across all unicode characters.


If the optional ESCAPE clause is present, then the expression
following the ESCAPE keyword must evaluate to a string consisting of
a single character. This character may be used in the LIKE pattern
to include literal percent or underscore characters. The escape
character followed by a percent symbol (%), underscore (\_), or a second
instance of the escape character itself matches a
literal percent symbol, underscore, or a single escape character,
respectively.



The infix LIKE operator is implemented by calling the
application\-defined SQL functions [like(*Y*,*X*)](lang_corefunc.html#like) or
[like(*Y*,*X*,*Z*)](lang_corefunc.html#like).


The LIKE operator can be made case sensitive using the
[case\_sensitive\_like pragma](pragma.html#pragma_case_sensitive_like).



The GLOB operator is similar to LIKE but uses the Unix
file globbing syntax for its wildcards. Also, GLOB is case
sensitive, unlike LIKE. Both GLOB and LIKE may be preceded by
the NOT keyword to invert the sense of the test. The infix GLOB
operator is implemented by calling the function
[glob(*Y*,*X*)](lang_corefunc.html#glob) and can be modified by overriding
that function.



The REGEXP operator is a special syntax for the regexp()
user function. No regexp() user function is defined by default
and so use of the REGEXP operator will normally result in an
error message. If an [application\-defined SQL function](appfunc.html) named "regexp"
is added at run\-time, then the "*X* REGEXP *Y*" operator will
be implemented as a call to "regexp(*Y*,*X*)".



The MATCH operator is a special syntax for the match()
application\-defined function. The default match() function implementation
raises an exception and is not really useful for anything.
But extensions can override the match() function with more
helpful logic.



The extract operators act as a special syntax for functions
"\-\>"() and "\-\>\>"(). Default implementations for these functions
perform [JSON subcomponent extraction](json1.html#jptr),
but extensions can override them for other purposes.



