## SQLite Release 3\.39\.2 On 2022\-07\-21

**Prior changes from version 3\.39\.0 (2022\-06\-25\):**


1. Add (long overdue) support for [RIGHT and FULL OUTER JOIN](../lang_select.html#rjoin).
- Add new binary comparison operators [IS NOT DISTINCT FROM](../lang_expr.html#isdf) and [IS DISTINCT FROM](../lang_expr.html#isdf)
 that are equivalent to IS and IS NOT, respective, for compatibility with
 PostgreSQL and SQL standards.
- Add a new return code (value "3") from the [sqlite3\_vtab\_distinct()](../c3ref/vtab_distinct.html)
 interface that indicates a query that has both DISTINCT and ORDER BY
 clauses.
- Added the [sqlite3\_db\_name()](../c3ref/db_name.html) interface.
- The unix os interface resolves all symbolic links in database
 filenames to create a canonical name for the database before the
 file is opened.
 If the [SQLITE\_OPEN\_NOFOLLOW](../c3ref/c_open_autoproxy.html) flag is used with [sqlite3\_open\_v2()](../c3ref/open.html)
 or similar, the open will fail if any element of the path is a
 symbolic link.
- Defer materializing views until the materialization
 is actually needed, thus avoiding unnecessary work if the materialization turns
 out to never be used.
- The [HAVING clause](../lang_select.html#resultset) of a [SELECT statement](../lang_select.html) is now allowed on any aggregate query,
 even queries that do not have a [GROUP BY clause](../lang_select.html#resultset).
- Many [microoptimizations](../cpu.html#microopt) collectively reduce CPU cycles by about 2\.3%.


**Prior changes from version 3\.39\.1 (2022\-07\-13\):**


1. Fix an incorrect result from a query that uses a view that contains a compound
 SELECT in which only one arm contains a RIGHT JOIN and where the view is not
 the first FROM clause term of the query that contains the view.
 [forum post 174afeae5734d42d](https://sqlite.org/forum/forumpost/174afeae5734d42d).
- Fix some harmless compiler warnings.
- Fix a long\-standing problem with [ALTER TABLE RENAME](../lang_altertable.html#altertabrename) that can only arise
 if the [sqlite3\_limit](../c3ref/limit.html)([SQLITE\_LIMIT\_SQL\_LENGTH](../c3ref/c_limit_attached.html#sqlitelimitsqllength)) is set to a very small value.
- Fix a long\-standing problem in [FTS3](../fts3.html) that can only arise when compiled with
 the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_PARENTHESIS](../compile.html#enable_fts3_parenthesis) compile\-time option.
- Fix the build so that is works when the [SQLITE\_DEBUG](../compile.html#debug) and
 [SQLITE\_OMIT\_WINDOWFUNC](../compile.html#omit_windowfunc) compile\-time options are both provided at the
 same time.
- Fix the initial\-prefix optimization for the [REGEXP](../lang_expr.html#regexp) extension so that it works
 correctly even if the prefix contains characters that require a 3\-byte UTF8
 encoding.
- Enhance the [sqlite\_stmt](../stmt.html) virtual table so that it buffers all of its output.


**Changes in this specific patch release, version 3\.39\.2 (2022\-07\-21\):**


1. Fix a performance regression in the query planner associated with rearranging
 the order of FROM clause terms in the presences of a LEFT JOIN.
- Apply fixes for CVE\-2022\-35737, Chromium bugs 1343348 and 1345947,
 [forum post 3607259d3c](https://sqlite.org/forum/forumpost/3607259d3c), and
 other minor problems discovered by internal testing.
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2022\-07\-21 15:24:47 698edb77537b67c41adc68f9b892db56bcf9a55e00371a61420f3ddd668e6603
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: bffbaafa94706f0ed234f183af3eb46e6485e7e2c75983173ded76e0da805f11



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).






