# 2\. Description


The CREATE VIEW command assigns a name to a pre\-packaged 
[SELECT](lang_select.html) statement. 
Once the view is created, it can be used in the FROM clause
of another [SELECT](lang_select.html) in place of a table name.



If the "TEMP" or "TEMPORARY" keyword occurs in between "CREATE"
and "VIEW" then the view that is created is only visible to the
[database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html) that created it and is automatically deleted when
the database connection is closed.


 If a schema\-name is specified, then the view 
is created in the specified database.
It is an error to specify both a schema\-name
and the TEMP keyword on a VIEW, unless the schema\-name 
is "temp".
If no schema name is specified, and the TEMP keyword is not present,
the VIEW is created in the main database.


You cannot [DELETE](lang_delete.html), [INSERT](lang_insert.html), or [UPDATE](lang_update.html) a view. Views are read\-only 
in SQLite. However, in many cases you can use an
[INSTEAD OF trigger](lang_createtrigger.html#instead_of_trigger) on the view to accomplish 
the same thing. Views are removed 
with the [DROP VIEW](lang_dropview.html) command.


If a column\-name list follows 
the view\-name, then that list determines
the names of the columns for the view. If the column\-name
list is omitted, then the names of the columns in the view are derived
from the names of the result\-set columns in the [select\-stmt](syntax/select-stmt.html).
The use of column\-name list is recommended. Or, if
column\-name list is omitted, then the result
columns in the [SELECT](lang_select.html) statement that defines the view should have
well\-defined names using the 
"[AS column\-alias](syntax/result-column.html)" syntax.
SQLite allows you to create views that depend on automatically 
generated column names, but you should avoid using them since the 
rules used to generate column names are not a defined part of the
interface and might change in future releases of SQLite.



The column\-name list syntax was added in
SQLite versions 3\.9\.0 (2015\-10\-14\).



*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


