## 2\.1\. Git does not provide good situational awareness



When I want to see what has been happening on SQLite, I visit the
[timeline](https://sqlite.org/src/timeline) and in a single
screen I see a summary of the latest changes, on all branches.
In a few clicks, I can drill down as much detail as I
want. I can even do this from a phone.




GitHub and GitLab offer nothing comparable. The closest I have
found is the [network](https://github.com/sqlite/sqlite/network),
which is slow to render (unless it is already cached), does not
offer nearly as much details, and scarcely works at all on mobile.
The [commits](https://github.com/sqlite/sqlite/commits/master) view
of GitHub provides more detail, renders quickly,
and works on mobile, but only shows a single branch at a time,
so I cannot easily know if I've seen all of the recent changes.
And even if GitHub/GitLab did offer better interfaces, both are
third\-party services. They are not a core part of Git. Hence,
using them introduces yet another dependency into the project.




I am told that Git users commonly install third\-party graphical
viewers for Git, many of which do a better job of showing recent
activity on the project. That is great, but these are still
more third\-party applications that must be installed and
managed separately. Many are platform\-specific. (One of the
better ones, [GitUp](https://gitup.co/), only works on Mac, for
example.) All require that you first sync your local repository
then bring up their graphical interface on your desktop. And
even with all that, I still cannot see what I typically want to
see without multiple clicks. Checking on project status from
a phone while away from the office is not an option.



