## 2\.4\. Git does not track historical branch names



Git keeps the complete DAG of the check\-in sequence. But branch
tags are local information that is not synced and not retained
once a branch closes.
This makes review of historical
branches tedious.




As an example, suppose a customer asks you:
"What ever became of that 'prefer\-coroutine\-sort\-subquery' branch
from two years ago?"
You might try to answer by consulting the history in
your version control system, thusly:



* **GitHub:** [https://github.com/sqlite/sqlite/commits/prefer\-coroutine\-sort\-subquery](https://github.com/sqlite/sqlite/commits/prefer-coroutine-sort-subquery)
* **Fossil:** [https://sqlite.org/src/timeline?r\=prefer\-coroutine\-sort\-subquery](https://sqlite.org/src/timeline?r=prefer-coroutine-sort-subquery)



The Fossil view clearly shows that the branch was eventually merged back into
trunk. It shows where the branch started, and it shows two occasions where changes
on trunk were merged into the branch. GitHub shows none of this. In fact, the
GitHub display is mostly useless in trying to figure out what happened.




Many readers have recommended various third\-party GUIs for Git that
might do a better job of showing historical development activity. Maybe
some of them do work better than native Git and/or GitHub, though they
will all be hampered by the fact that Git does not preserve historical
branch names across syncs. And even if those other tools are better,
the fact that it is necessary to go to a third\-party tool to get the information
desired does not speak well of the core system.



