## 1\.0 Introduction


For most applications, the recommended method for building
SQLite is to use [the amalgamation](amalgamation.html) code
file, **sqlite3\.c**, and its corresponding header file
**sqlite3\.h**. The sqlite3\.c code file should compile and
run on any Unix, Windows system without any changes
or special compiler options. Most applications can simply include
the sqlite3\.c file together with the other C code files that make
up the application, compile them all together, and have working
and well configured version of SQLite.



> *Most applications work great with SQLite in its
> default configuration and with no special compile\-time configuration.
> Most developers should be able to completely ignore this document
> and simply build SQLite from
> [the amalgamation](amalgamation.html) without any
> special knowledge and without taking any special actions.*


However, highly tuned and specialized
applications may want or need to replace some of
SQLite's built\-in system interfaces with alternative implementations
more suitable for the needs of the application. SQLite is designed
to be easily reconfigured at compile\-time to meet the specific
needs of individual projects. Among the compile\-time configuration
options for SQLite are these:


* Replace the built\-in mutex subsystem with an alternative
 implementation.
* Completely disable all mutexing for use in single\-threaded
 applications.
* Reconfigure the memory allocation subsystem to use a memory
 allocator other the malloc() implementation from the standard
 library.
* Realign the memory allocation subsystem so that it never calls
 malloc() at all but instead satisfies all memory requests using
 a fixed\-size memory buffer assigned to SQLite at startup.
* Replace the interface to the file system with an alternative
 design. In other words, override all of the system calls that
 SQLite makes in order to talk to the disk with a completely different
 set of system calls.
* Override other operating system interfaces such as calls to obtain
 Zulu or local time.


Generally speaking, there are three separate subsystems within
SQLite that can be modified or overridden at compile\-time. The
mutex subsystem is used to serialize access to SQLite resources that
are shared among threads. The memory allocation subsystem is used
to allocate memory required by SQLite objects and for the database
cache. Finally, the [Virtual File System](c3ref/vfs.html) subsystem is
used to provide a portable interface between SQLite and the underlying
operating system and especially the file system. We call these three
subsystems the "interface" subsystems of SQLite.


We emphasis that most applications are well\-served by the 
built\-in default implementations of the SQLite interface subsystems.
Developers are encouraged to use the
default built\-in implementations whenever possible
and to build SQLite without any special compile\-time options or parameters.
However, some highly specialized applications may benefit from
substituting or modifying one or more of these built\-in SQLite
interface subsystems.
Or, if SQLite is used on an operating system other than
Unix (Linux or Mac OS X), Windows (Win32 or WinCE), or OS/2 then none
of the interface subsystems that come built into SQLite will work
and the application will need to provide alternative implementations
suitable for the target platform.


