## 1\.2\. Disadvantages



In fairness, having a built\-in implementation of printf() also comes with
some disadvantages. To wit:



1. The built\-in printf() implementation uses extra code space 
(about 7800 bytes on GCC 5\.4 with \-Os).
2. The floating\-point to text conversion subfunction for the built\-in printf()
is limited in precision to 16 significant digits or 26 significant digits
if the "!" alternate\-form\-2 flag is used.
Every IEEE\-754 double can be represented *exactly* as a decimal
value, but for many doubles the exact decimal representation requires
more than 16 or 26 significant digits.
The SQLite printf() function only renders the first 16 or 26 significant digits
because that can be done efficient and because 16 decimal digits it is sufficient
to distinguish every possible double value. Use the [decimal extension](floatingpoint.html#decext) to get
the exact decimal equivalent of double value for the rare cases where that is
required.
3. The order of the buffer pointer and buffer size parameters in the built\-in
snprintf() implementation is reversed from the order used in standard\-library
implementations.
4. The built\-in printf() implementation does not handle posix positional referencing
modifiers that allow the order of arguments to printf() to be different from the
order of the %\-substitutions. In the built\-in printf(), the order of the arguments
must exactly match the order of the %\-substitutions.



In spite of the disadvantages, the developers believe that having a built\-in
printf() implementation inside of SQLite is a net positive.



