## SQLite Release 3\.7\.9 On 2011\-11\-01

1. If a search token (on the right\-hand side of the MATCH operator) in
 [FTS4](../fts3.html#fts4) begins with "^" then that token must be the first in its field
 of the document. **\*\* Potentially Incompatible Change \*\***- Added options [SQLITE\_DBSTATUS\_CACHE\_HIT](../c3ref/c_dbstatus_options.html#sqlitedbstatuscachehit) and [SQLITE\_DBSTATUS\_CACHE\_MISS](../c3ref/c_dbstatus_options.html#sqlitedbstatuscachemiss)
 to the [sqlite3\_db\_status()](../c3ref/db_status.html) interface.
- Removed support for [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT2](../compile.html#enable_stat2), replacing it with the much
 more capable [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](../compile.html#enable_stat3) option.
- Enhancements to the sqlite3\_analyzer utility program, including the
 \-\-pageinfo and \-\-stats options and support for multiplexed databases.
- Enhance the [sqlite3\_data\_count()](../c3ref/data_count.html) interface so that it can be used to
 determine if SQLITE\_DONE has been seen on the prepared statement.
- Added the [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_OVERWRITE](../c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntloverwrite) file\-control by which the SQLite core
 indicates to the VFS that the current transaction will overwrite the
 entire database file.
- Increase the default [lookaside memory allocator](../malloc.html#lookaside) allocation size from
 100 to 128 bytes.
- Enhanced the query planner so that it can factor terms in and out of
 OR expressions in the WHERE clause in an effort to find better indices.
- Added the [SQLITE\_DIRECT\_OVERFLOW\_READ](../compile.html#direct_overflow_read) compile\-time option, causing
 [overflow pages](../fileformat2.html#ovflpgs) to be read directly from the database file,
 bypassing the [page cache](../c3ref/pcache_methods2.html).
- Remove limits on the magnitude of precision and width value in the
 format specifiers of the [sqlite3\_mprintf()](../c3ref/mprintf.html) family of string rendering
 routines.
- Fix a bug that prevent [ALTER TABLE ... RENAME](../lang_altertable.html) from working
 on some virtual tables in a database with a UTF16 encoding.
- Fix a bug in ASCII\-to\-float conversion that causes slow performance and
 incorrect results when converting numbers with ridiculously large exponents.
- Fix a bug that causes incorrect results in aggregate queries that use
 multiple aggregate functions whose arguments contain complicated expressions
 that differ only in the case of string literals contained within those
 expressions.
- Fix a bug that prevented the [page\_count](../pragma.html#pragma_page_count) and [quick\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_quick_check) pragmas from
 working correctly if their names were capitalized.
- Fix a bug that caused [VACUUM](../lang_vacuum.html) to fail if the [count\_changes pragma](../pragma.html#pragma_count_changes) was
 engaged.
- Fix a bug in [virtual table](../vtab.html) implementation that causes a crash if
 an [FTS4](../fts3.html#fts4) table is [dropped](../lang_droptable.html) inside a transaction and
 a [SAVEPOINT](../lang_savepoint.html) occurs afterwards.
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID:
 "2011\-11\-01 00:52:41 c7c6050ef060877ebe77b41d959e9df13f8c9b5e"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: becd16877f4f9b281b91c97e106089497d71bb47



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


