## SQLite Release 3\.9\.0 On 2015\-10\-14

**Policy Changes:**
- The [version numbering conventions](../versionnumbers.html) for SQLite are revised to use the
 emerging standard of [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/).
**New Features And Enhancements:**
- Added [the json1 extension](../json1.html) module in the source tree, and in the [amalgamation](../amalgamation.html).
 Enable support using the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_JSON1](../compile.html#enable_json1) compile\-time option.
- Added [Full Text Search version 5 (FTS5\)](../fts5.html) to the [amalgamation](../amalgamation.html), enabled
 using [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS5](../compile.html#enable_fts5). FTS5 will be considered "experimental" (subject
 to incompatible changes) for at least one more release cycle.
- The [CREATE VIEW](../lang_createview.html) statement now accepts an optional list of
 column names following the view name.
- Added support for [indexes on expressions](../expridx.html).
- Added support for [table\-valued functions](../vtab.html#tabfunc2) in the FROM clause of a
 [SELECT](../lang_select.html) statement.
- Added support for [eponymous virtual tables](../vtab.html#epovtab).
- A [VIEW](../lang_createview.html) may now reference undefined tables and functions when
 initially created. Missing tables and functions are reported when
 the VIEW is used in a query.
- Added the [sqlite3\_value\_subtype()](../c3ref/value_subtype.html) and [sqlite3\_result\_subtype()](../c3ref/result_subtype.html)
 interfaced (used by [the json1 extension](../json1.html)).
- The query planner is now able to use [partial indexes](../partialindex.html) that contain
 AND\-connected terms in the WHERE clause.
- The sqlite3\_analyzer.exe utility is updated to report the depth of
 each btree and to show the average fanout for indexes and
 WITHOUT ROWID tables.
- Enhanced the [dbstat virtual table](../dbstat.html) so that it can be used as a
 [table\-valued function](../vtab.html#tabfunc2) where the argument is the schema to be
 analyzed.
**Other changes:**
- The [sqlite3\_memory\_alarm()](../c3ref/aggregate_count.html) interface, which has been deprecated and
 undocumented for 8 years, is changed into a no\-op.
**Important fixes:**
- Fixed a critical bug in the
 [SQLite Encryption Extension](https://www.sqlite.org/see/doc/trunk/www/readme.wiki) that
 could cause the database to become unreadable and unrecoverable if a [VACUUM](../lang_vacuum.html) command
 changed the size of the encryption nonce.
- Added a memory barrier in the implementation of
 [sqlite3\_initialize()](../c3ref/initialize.html) to help ensure that it is thread\-safe.
- Fix the [OR optimization](../optoverview.html#or_opt) so that it always ignores subplans that
 do not use an index.
- Do not apply the [WHERE\-clause push\-down optimization](../optoverview.html#pushdown) on terms that originate
 in the ON or USING clause of a LEFT JOIN. Fix for ticket
 [c2a19d81652f40568c](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/c2a19d81652f40568c).

- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2015\-10\-14 12:29:53 a721fc0d89495518fe5612e2e3bbc60befd2e90d"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: c03e47e152ddb9c342b84ffb39448bf4a2bd4288





A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


