#### 3\.2 The number of rows that changed


The **sqlite\_changes** API function returns the number of rows
that have been inserted, deleted, or modified since the database was
last quiescent. A "quiescent" database is one in which there are
no outstanding calls to **sqlite\_exec** and no VMs created by
**sqlite\_compile** that have not been finalized by **sqlite\_finalize**.
In common usage, **sqlite\_changes** returns the number
of rows inserted, deleted, or modified by the most recent **sqlite\_exec**
call or since the most recent **sqlite\_compile**. But if you have
nested calls to **sqlite\_exec** (that is, if the callback routine
of one **sqlite\_exec** invokes another **sqlite\_exec**) or if
you invoke **sqlite\_compile** to create a new VM while there is
still another VM in existence, then
the meaning of the number returned by **sqlite\_changes** is more
complex.
The number reported includes any changes
that were later undone by a ROLLBACK or ABORT. But rows that are
deleted because of a DROP TABLE are *not* counted.


SQLite implements the command "**DELETE FROM table**" (without
a WHERE clause) by dropping the table then recreating it. 
This is much faster than deleting the elements of the table individually.
But it also means that the value returned from **sqlite\_changes**
will be zero regardless of the number of elements that were originally
in the table. If an accurate count of the number of elements deleted
is necessary, use "**DELETE FROM table WHERE 1**" instead.


