#### 1\.1 Opening a database


Use the **sqlite\_open** function to open an existing SQLite
database or to create a new SQLite database. The first argument
is the database name. The second argument is intended to signal
whether the database is going to be used for reading and writing
or just for reading. But in the current implementation, the
second argument to **sqlite\_open** is ignored.
The third argument is a pointer to a string pointer.
If the third argument is not NULL and an error occurs
while trying to open the database, then an error message will be
written to memory obtained from malloc() and \*errmsg will be made
to point to this error message. The calling function is responsible
for freeing the memory when it has finished with it.


The name of an SQLite database is the name of a file that will
contain the database. If the file does not exist, SQLite attempts
to create and initialize it. If the file is read\-only (due to
permission bits or because it is located on read\-only media like
a CD\-ROM) then SQLite opens the database for reading only. The
entire SQL database is stored in a single file on the disk. But
additional temporary files may be created during the execution of
an SQL command in order to store the database rollback journal or
temporary and intermediate results of a query.


The return value of the **sqlite\_open** function is a
pointer to an opaque **sqlite** structure. This pointer will
be the first argument to all subsequent SQLite function calls that
deal with the same database. NULL is returned if the open fails
for any reason.



