# Features Of SQLite


* [Transactions](transactional.html)
 are atomic, consistent, isolated, and durable (ACID)
 even after system crashes and power failures.
* [Zero\-configuration](zeroconf.html)
 \- no setup or administration needed.
* [Full\-featured SQL](fullsql.html) implementation
 with advanced capabilities like [partial indexes](partialindex.html),
 [indexes on expressions](expridx.html), [JSON](json1.html),
 [common table expressions](lang_with.html), and [window functions](windowfunctions.html).
 ([Omitted features](omitted.html))
* A complete database is stored in a 
 [single cross\-platform disk file](onefile.html).
 Great for use as an [application file format](appfileformat.html).
* Supports terabyte\-sized databases and gigabyte\-sized strings
 and blobs. (See <limits.html>.)
* Small code [footprint](footprint.html): 
 less than 750KiB fully configured or much less
 with optional features omitted.
* Simple, easy to use [API](cintro.html).
* Fast: In some cases, SQLite is 
 [faster than direct filesystem I/O](fasterthanfs.html)* Written in ANSI\-C. [TCL bindings](tclsqlite.html) included.
 Bindings for dozens of other languages available separately.
* Well\-commented source code with
 [100% branch test coverage](testing.html#coverage).
* Available as a 
 [single ANSI\-C source\-code file](amalgamation.html) 
 that is [easy to compile](howtocompile.html) and hence is easy
 to add into a larger project.
* [Self\-contained](selfcontained.html):
 no external dependencies.
* Cross\-platform: Android, \*BSD, iOS, Linux, Mac, Solaris, VxWorks, 
 and Windows (Win32, WinCE, WinRT)
 are supported out of the box. Easy to port to other systems.
* Sources are in the [public domain](copyright.html).
 Use for any purpose.
* Comes with a standalone [command\-line interface](cli.html)
 (CLI) client that can be used to administer SQLite databases.





