### 3\.1\.5\. Experimental memory allocators


The name "memsys5" used for the zero\-malloc memory allocator implies
that there are several additional memory allocators available, and indeed
there are. The default memory allocator is "memsys1". The debugging
memory allocator is "memsys2". Those have already been covered.


If SQLite is compiled with [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMSYS3](compile.html#enable_memsys3) then another
zero\-malloc memory allocator, similar to memsys5, is included in the
source tree. The memsys3 allocator, like memsys5, must be activated
by a call to [sqlite3\_config](c3ref/config.html)([SQLITE\_CONFIG\_HEAP](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigheap),...). Memsys3
uses the memory buffer supplied as its source for all memory allocations.
The difference between memsys3 and memsys5 is that memsys3 uses a
different memory allocation algorithm that seems to work well in
practice, but which does not provide mathematical
guarantees against memory fragmentation and breakdown. Memsys3 was
a predecessor to memsys5\. The SQLite developers now believe that 
memsys5 is superior to
memsys3 and that all applications that need a zero\-malloc memory
allocator should use memsys5 in preference to memsys3\. Memsys3 is
considered both experimental and deprecated and will likely be removed 
from the source tree in a future release of SQLite.


Memsys4 and memsys6 were experimental memory allocators
introduced in around 2007 and subsequently removed from the
source tree in around 2008, after it became clear that they
added no new value.


Other experimental memory allocators might be added in future releases
of SQLite. One may anticipate that these will be called memsys7, memsys8,
and so forth.



