### The API


The interface to the SQLite library consists of single
tcl command named **sqlite3**
Because there is only this
one command, the interface is not placed in a separate
namespace.


The **sqlite3** command is mostly used as follows
to open or create a database:



> **sqlite3**  *dbcmd  ?database\-name?  ?options?*


To get information only, the **sqlite3** command may be given exactly
one argument, either "\-version", "\-sourceid" or "\-has\-codec", which will
return the specified datum with no other effect.



With other arguments, the **sqlite3** command opens the database
named in the second non\-option argument, or named "" if there is no such.
If the open succeeds, a new Tcl command named by the first argument is created
and "" is returned.
(This approach is similar to the way widgets are created in Tk.)
If the open fails, an error is raised without creating a Tcl command
and an error message string is returned.



If the database does not already exist, the default behavior
is for it to be created automatically (though this can be changed by
using the "**\-create *false***" option).




The name of the database is usually just the name of a disk file in which
the database is stored. If the name of the database is
the special name "[:memory:](inmemorydb.html)", then a new database is created
in memory. If the name of the database is an empty string, then
the database is created in an empty file that is automatically deleted
when the database connection closes. [URI filenames](uri.html) can be used if
the "**\-uri yes**" option is supplied on the **sqlite3** command.




Options understood by the **sqlite3** command include:




> **\-create** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, then a new database is created if one does not already exist.
> If false, then an attempt to open a database file that does not previously
> exist raises an error. The default behavior is "true".
> 
> 
> 
> **\-nomutex** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, then all mutexes for the database connection are disabled.
> This provides a small performance boost in single\-threaded applications.
> 
> 
> 
> **\-readonly** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, then open the database file read\-only. If false, then the
> database is opened for both reading and writing if filesystem permissions
> allow, or for reading only if filesystem write permission is denied
> by the operating system. The default setting is "false". Note that
> if the previous process to have the database did not exit cleanly
> and left behind a [hot journal](fileformat2.html#hotjrnl), then the write permission is required
> to recover the database after opening, and the database cannot be
> opened read\-only.
> 
> 
> 
> **\-uri** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, then interpret the filename argument as a [URI filename](uri.html). If
> false, then the argument is a literal filename. The default value is
> "false".
> 
> 
> 
> **\-vfs** *VFSNAME*
> 
> Use an alternative [VFS](vfs.html) named by the argument.
> 
> 
> 
> **\-fullmutex** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, multiple threads can safely attempt to use the database.
> If false, such attempts are unsafe. The default value depends upon
> how the extension is built.
> 
> 
> 
> **\-nofollow** *BOOLEAN*
> 
> If true, and the database name refers to a symbolic link,
> it will not be followed to open the true database file.
> If false, symbolic links will be followed.
> The default is "false".



Once an SQLite database is open, it can be controlled using
methods of the *dbcmd*.
There are currently 40 methods
defined.




| * [authorizer](#authorizer) * [backup](#backup) * [bind\_fallback](#bind_fallback) * [busy](#busy) * [cache](#cache) * [changes](#changes) * [close](#close) * [collate](#collate) * [collation\_needed](#collation_needed) * [commit\_hook](#commit_hook) * [complete](#complete) * [config](#config) * [copy](#copy) * [deserialize](#deserialize) | * [enable\_load\_extension](#enable_load_extension) * [errorcode](#errorcode) * [eval](#eval) * [exists](#exists) * [function](#function) * [incrblob](#incrblob) * [interrupt](#interrupt) * [last\_insert\_rowid](#last_insert_rowid) * [nullvalue](#nullvalue) * [onecolumn](#onecolumn) * [preupdate](#preupdate) * [profile](#profile) * [progress](#progress) * [restore](#restore) | * [rollback\_hook](#rollback_hook) * [serialize](#serialize) * [status](#status) * [timeout](#timeout) * [total\_changes](#total_changes) * [trace](#trace) * [trace\_v2](#trace_v2) * [transaction](#transaction) * [unlock\_notify](#unlock_notify) * [update\_hook](#update_hook) * [version](#version) * [wal\_hook](#wal_hook) |
| --- | --- | --- |


The use of each of these methods will be explained in the sequel, though
not in the order shown above.



