### 2014\-10\-17 \- Release 3\.8\.7


> SQLite [version 3\.8\.7](releaselog/3_8_7.html) is a regularly scheduled maintenance release.
>  Upgrading from all prior versions is recommended.
> 
> 
> Most of the changes from the previous release have been micro\-optimizations
>  designed to help SQLite run a little faster. Each individual optimization
>  has an unmeasurably small performance impact. But the improvements add up.
>  Measured on a well\-defined workload (which the SQLite developers use
>  as a proxy for a typical application workload) using cachegrind on Linux
>  and compiled with gcc 4\.8\.1 and \-Os on x64 linux, the current release
>  does over 20% more work for the same number of CPU cycles compared to the
>  previous release. Cachegrind is not a real CPU, and the workload
>  used for measurement is only a proxy. So your performance may vary.
>  We expect to see about half the measured and reported improvement in
>  real\-world applications. 10% is less than 20% but it is still pretty
>  good, we think.
> 
> 
> This release includes a new set of C\-language interfaces that have
>  unsigned 64\-bit instead of signed 32\-bit length parameters. The new
>  APIs do not provide any new capabilities. But they do make it easier
>  to write applications that are more resistant to integer overflow
>  vulnerabilities.
> 
> 
> This release also includes a new sorter that is able to use multiple
>  threads to help with large sort operations. (Sort operations are
>  sometimes required to implement ORDER BY and/or GROUP BY clauses and
>  are almost always required for CREATE INDEX.) The multi\-threads sorter
>  is turned off by default and must be enabled using the
>  [PRAGMA threads](pragma.html#pragma_threads) SQL command. Note that the multi\-threaded sorter
>  provides faster real\-time performance for large sorts, but it also
>  uses more CPU cycles and more energy.



---

