### 2013\-12\-06 \- Release 3\.8\.2


> SQLite [version 3\.8\.2](releaselog/3_8_2.html) is a regularly scheduled maintenance release.
>  Upgrading from the previous release is optional.
> 
> 
>  Version 3\.8\.2 adds support for [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) tables. This is a
>  significant extension to SQLite. Database files that contain WITHOUT ROWID
>  tables are not readable or writable by prior versions of SQLite, however
>  databases that do not use WITHOUT ROWID tables are fully backwards
>  and forwards compatible.
> 
> 
>  The 3\.8\.2 release contains a potentially incompatible change. In
>  all prior versions of SQLite, a [cast](lang_expr.html#castexpr) from a very large positive
>  floating point number into an integer resulted in the most negative integer.
>  In other words, CAST(\+99\.9e99 to INT) would yield \-9223372036854775808\.
>  This behavior came about because it is what x86/x64 hardware does
>  for the equivalent cast in the C language. But the behavior is
>  bizarre. And so it has been changed effective with this release so that
>  a cast from a floating point number into an integer returns the integer
>  between the floating point value and zero that is closest to the floating
>  point value. Hence, CAST(\+99\.9e99 to INT) now returns \+9223372036854775807\.
>  Since routines like [sqlite3\_column\_int64()](c3ref/column_blob.html) do an implicit cast if the
>  value being accessed is really a floating point number, they are also
>  affected by this change.
> 
> 
>  Besides the two changes mentioned above, the 3\.8\.2 release also
>  includes a number of performance enhancements. The
>  [skip\-scan optimization](optoverview.html#skipscan) is now available for databases that have been
>  processed by [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html). Constant SQL functions are now factored out of
>  inner loops, which can result in a significant speedup for queries that
>  contain WHERE clause terms like "date\>datetime('now','\-2 days')". And
>  various high\-runner internal routines have been refactored for reduced
>  CPU load.



---

