### 2012\-09\-03 \- Release 3\.7\.14


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.14](releaselog/3_7_14.html) is a regularly scheduled maintenance release
>  of SQLite. The previous release continues to work well. Upgrading
>  is optional.
>  Version 3\.7\.14 drops native support for OS/2\. We are not aware of any
>  active projects that were using SQLite on OS/2 and since the SQLite
>  developers had no way of testing on OS/2 it seemed like it was time
>  to simply remove the OS/2 code from the SQLite tree. If there are
>  OS/2 projects out there that still need SQLite support, they can
>  continue to maintain their own private [VFS](vfs.html) which can be linked to
>  SQLite at start\-time using the [sqlite3\_vfs\_register()](c3ref/vfs_find.html) interface.
> 
> 
>  The [sqlite3\_close\_v2()](c3ref/close.html) interface has been added. The sqlite3\_close\_v2()
>  interface differs from sqlite3\_close() in that it is designed to work
>  better for host language that use a garbage collector. With the older
>  sqlite3\_close() interface, the associated [prepared statements](c3ref/stmt.html) and
>  [sqlite3\_backup](c3ref/backup.html) objects must be destroyed before the database connection.
>  With the newer sqlite3\_close\_v2() interface, the objects can be destroyed
>  in any order.
> 
> 
>  This release also includes performance improvements to the sort algorithm
>  that is used to implement ORDER BY and CREATE INDEX. And the query planner
>  has been enhanced to better use covering indices on queries that use OR
>  terms in the WHERE clause.



---

