### 2012\-06\-11 \- Release 3\.7\.13


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.13](releaselog/3_7_13.html) adds support for WinRT and metro style
>  applications for Microsoft Windows 8\. The 3\.7\.13 release is
>  coming sooner than is usual after the previous release in order to get
>  this new capability into the hands of developers. To use SQLite in
>  a metro style application, compile with the \-DSQLITE\_OS\_WINRT flag.
>  Because of the increased application security and safety requirements
>  of WinRT, all database
>  filenames should be full pathnames. Note that SQLite is not capable
>  of accessing databases outside the installation directory and application
>  data directory. This restriction is another security and safety feature
>  of WinRT. Apart from these restrictions, SQLite should work exactly
>  the same on WinRT as it does on every other system.
>  Also in this release: when a database is opened using [URI filenames](uri.html)
>  and the [mode\=memory](uri.html#coreqp) query parameter
>  then the database is an in\-memory database, just as if it had
>  been named ":memory:". But, if shared cache mode is enabled, then
>  all other database connections that specify the same URI filename
>  will connect to the same in\-memory database. This allows two or more
>  database connections (in the same process) to share the same in\-memory
>  database.
> 
> 
>  This release also includes some corner\-case performance optimizations
>  that are obscure yet significant to an important subset of SQLite users.
>  Getting these performance optimizations into circulation quickly is
>  yet another reason for making this release so soon following the previous.
> 
> 
>  The next release of SQLite is scheduled to occur after the usual
>  2 or 3 month interval.



---

