### 2012\-01\-16 \- Version 3\.7\.10


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.10](releaselog/3_7_10.html) is a regularly scheduled maintenance release.
>  Upgrading from version 3\.7\.6\.3, 3\.7\.7, 3\.7\.7\.1, 3\.7\.8, or 3\.7\.9 is
>  optional. Upgrading from other releases is recommended.
>  The [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PCACHE](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpcache) mechanism has been replaced with
>  [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_PCACHE2](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigpcache2). If you do not know what this mechanism
>  is (it is an extreme corner\-case and is seldom used) then this
>  change will not effect you in the least.
> 
> 
>  The default [schema format number](fileformat2.html#schemaformat) for new database files has changed
>  from 1 to 4\. SQLite has been able to generate and read database files
>  using schema format 4 for six years. But up unto now, the default
>  schema format has been 1 so that older versions of SQLite could read
>  and write databases generated by newer versions of SQLite. But those
>  older versions of SQLite have become so scarce now that it seems
>  reasonable to make the new format the default.
> 
> 
>  SQLite is changing some of the assumptions it makes above the behavior
>  of disk drives and flash memory devices during a sudden power loss.
>  This change is completely transparent to applications.
>  Read about the [powersafe overwrite](psow.html) property for additional information.
> 
> 
>  Lots of new interfaces have been added in this release:
>  * [sqlite3\_db\_release\_memory()](c3ref/db_release_memory.html)* [PRAGMA shrink\_memory](pragma.html#pragma_shrink_memory)* [sqlite3\_db\_filename()](c3ref/db_filename.html)* [sqlite3\_stmt\_busy()](c3ref/stmt_busy.html)* [sqlite3\_uri\_boolean()](c3ref/uri_boolean.html)* [sqlite3\_uri\_int64()](c3ref/uri_boolean.html)
> 
> 
> 
>  The [PRAGMA cache\_size](pragma.html#pragma_cache_size) statement has been enhanced. Formerly, you would
>  use this statement to tell SQLite how many pages of the database files it
>  should hold in its cache at once. The total memory requirement would
>  depend on the database page size. Now, if you give [PRAGMA cache\_size](pragma.html#pragma_cache_size)
>  a negative value \-N, it will allocate roughly N
>  [kibibytes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kibibyte) of memory to cache,
>  divided up according to page size. This enhancement allows programs to
>  more easily control their memory usage.
> 
> 
>  There have been several obscure bug fixes. One noteworthy bug,
>  ticket [ff5be73dee](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/ff5be73dee),
>  could in theory result in a corrupt database file if a power loss
>  occurred at just the wrong moment on an unusually cantankerous disk
>  drive. But that is mostly a theoretical concern and is very unlikely
>  to happen in practice. The bug was found during laboratory testing
>  and has never been observed to occur in the wild.



---

