### 2011\-September\-19 \- Version 3\.7\.8


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.8](releaselog/3_7_8.html) is a quarterly maintenance release. Upgrading from
>  versions 3\.7\.6\.3, 3\.7\.7, or 3\.7\.7\.1 is optional. Upgrading from other
>  versions is recommended.
>  This release features a new "external merge sort" algorithm used to
>  implement ORDER BY and GROUP BY and also to presort the content of an
>  index for CREATE INDEX. The new algorithm does approximately the same
>  number of comparisons and I/Os as before, but the I/Os are much more
>  sequential and so runtimes are greatly reduced when the size of the
>  set being sorted is larger than the filesystem cache. The performance
>  improvement can be dramatic \- orders of magnitude faster
>  for large CREATE INDEX commands. On the other hand,
>  the code is slightly slower (1% or 2%)
>  for a small CREATE INDEX. Since CREATE INDEX is not an
>  operation that commonly occurs on a speed\-critical path, we feel that
>  this tradeoff is a good one. The slight slowdown for small CREATE INDEX
>  statements might be recovered in a future release. ORDER BY and GROUP BY
>  operations should now be faster for all cases, large and small.
> 
> 
>  The query planner has been enhanced to do a better job of handling
>  the DISTINCT keyword on SELECT statements.
> 
> 
>  There has been a lot of work on the default [VFSes](vfs.html). The Unix VFS has
>  been enhanced to include more overrideable system calls \- a feature requested
>  by Chromium to make it easier to build SQLite into a sandbox. The
>  windows VFS has been enhanced to be more resistant to interference from
>  anti\-virus software.
> 
> 
>  Every version of SQLite is better tested than the previous, and 3\.7\.8
>  is no exception to this rule. Version 3\.7\.8 has been used internally by
>  the SQLite team for mission critical functions and has performed flawlessly.
>  And, of course, it passes our rigorous [testing](testing.html) procedures with no
>  problems detected. Version 3\.7\.8 is recommended for all new development.



---

