### 2011\-06\-24 \- Version 3\.7\.7


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.7](releaselog/3_7_7.html) is a regularly scheduled bi\-monthly maintenance
>  release. Upgrading from version 3\.7\.6\.3 is optional. Upgrading from all
>  prior releases is recommended.
>  This release adds support for naming database files using [URI filenames](uri.html).
>  URI filenames are disabled by default (for backwards compatibility) but
>  applications are encouraged to enable them since incompatibilities are
>  likely to be exceedingly rare and the feature is useful. See the
>  [URI filename documentation](uri.html) for details.
> 
> 
>  Most of the other enhancements in this release involve
>  [virtual tables](vtab.html). The virtual table interface has been enhanced to
>  support [SAVEPOINT](lang_savepoint.html) and [ON CONFLICT](lang_conflict.html) clause processing, and the built\-in
>  [RTREE](rtree.html) and [FTS3/FTS4](fts3.html) have been augmented to take advantage of
>  the new capability. This means, for example, that it is now possible
>  to use the [REPLACE](lang_replace.html) command on [FTS3/FTS4](fts3.html) and [RTREE](rtree.html) tables.
> 
> 
>  The [FTS4](fts3.html#fts4) full\-text index extension has been enhanced to support
>  the [FTS4 prefix option](fts3.html#fts4prefix) and the [FTS4 order option](fts3.html#fts4order). These two enhancements
>  are provided in support of search\-as\-you\-type interfaces where search
>  results begin to appear after the first keystroke in the "search" box
>  and are refined with each subsequent keystroke. The way this is done is
>  to do a separate full\-text search after each key stroke, and add the
>  "\*" wildcard at the end of the word currently being typed. So, for
>  example, if the text typed so far is "fast da" and the next character
>  typed is "t", then the application does a full\-text search of the
>  pattern "fast dat\*" and displays the results. Such capability has
>  always existed. What is new is that the [FTS4 prefix option](fts3.html#fts4prefix) allows
>  the search to be very fast (a matter of milliseconds) even for difficult
>  cases such as "t\*" or "th\*".
> 
> 
>  There has been a fair amount of work done on the FTS4 module for this
>  release. But the core SQLite code has changed little and the previous
>  release has not given any problems, so we expect this to be a very
>  stable release.



---

