### 2011\-02\-01 \- Version 3\.7\.5


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.5](releaselog/3_7_5.html) is a regularly scheduled bi\-monthly maintenance
>  release of SQLite. Due to the discovery and fix of
>  [an obscure bug](https://www.sqlite.org/src/tktview?name=5d863f876e)
>  that could cause database corruption, upgrading from all prior
>  releases of SQLite is recommended. This bug was found during code
>  review and has not been observed in the wild.
>  This release adds new [opcodes](c3ref/c_dbstatus_options.html#sqlitedbstatuslookasidehit) for the
>  [sqlite3\_db\_status()](c3ref/db_status.html) interface that allow more precise measurement of
>  how the [lookaside memory allocator](malloc.html#lookaside) is performing, which can be useful
>  for tuning in applications with very tight memory constraints.
> 
> 
>  The [sqlite3\_vsnprintf()](c3ref/mprintf.html) interface was added. This routine is simply
>  a varargs version of the long\-standing [sqlite3\_snprintf()](c3ref/mprintf.html) interface.
> 
> 
>  The output from [sqlite3\_trace()](c3ref/profile.html) interface has been enhanced to work
>  better (and faster) in systems that use recursive extensions such as
>  [FTS3](fts3.html) or [RTREE](rtree.html).
> 
> 
>  Testing with Valgrind shows that this release of SQLite is about 1%
>  or 2% faster than the previous release for most operations.
> 
> 
>  A fork of the popular ADO.NET adaptor for SQLite known as System.Data.SQLite
>  is now available on <http://System.Data.SQLite.org/>. The originator
>  of System.Data.SQLite, Robert Simpson, is aware of this fork, has
>  expressed his approval, and has commit privileges on the new Fossil
>  repository. The SQLite development team intends to maintain
>  System.Data.SQLite moving forward.



---

