### 2010\-12\-08 \- Version 3\.7\.4


> SQLite [version 3\.7\.4](releaselog/3_7_4.html) is a regularly scheduled bi\-monthly maintenance
>  release of SQLite. Upgrading from [version 3\.7\.2](releaselog/3_7_2.html) and [version 3\.7\.3](releaselog/3_7_3.html)
>  is optional. Upgrading from all other SQLite releases is recommended.
>  This release features [full\-text search](fts3.html) enhancements. The older
>  [FTS3](fts3.html) virtual table is still fully supported, and should also run
>  faster. In addition, the new [FTS4](fts3.html#fts4) virtual table is added. FTS4
>  follows the same syntax as FTS3 but holds additional metadata which
>  facilitates some performance improvements and more advanced
>  [matchinfo()](fts3.html#matchinfo) output. Look for further full\-text search enhancements
>  in subsequent releases.
> 
> 
>  Also in this release, the [EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN](eqp.html) output has been enhanced
>  and new documentation is provided so that application developers can
>  more easily understand how SQLite is performing their queries.
> 
> 
>  Thanks to an account from the folks at <http://www.devio.us/>, OpenBSD
>  has been added to the list of platforms upon which we
>  [test SQLite](testing.html) prior to every release. That list of platforms
>  now includes:
> 
> 
>  * Linux x86 \& x86\_64
>  * MacOS 10\.5 \& 10\.6
>  * MacOS 10\.2 PowerPC
>  * WinXP and Win7
>  * Android 2\.2
>  * OpenBSD 4\.7
> 
> 
> 
>  The previous release of SQLite ([version 3\.7\.3](releaselog/3_7_3.html)) has proven to be very
>  robust. The only serious issue discovered was
>  [ticket 80ba201079](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/80ba201079) that
>  describes an incorrect query result that can occur under very
>  unusual circumstances. The ticket description contains details of the
>  problem. Suffice it to say here that the problem is very obscure and
>  is unlikely to effect most applications and so upgrading is optional.
>  The problem is fixed, of course, in this release.



---

