### 2009\-09\-11 \- Version 3\.6\.18


> Beginning with this release, the SQLite source code is tracked and
>  managed using the [Fossil](http://www.fossil-scm.org/)
>  distributed configuration management system. SQLite was previously
>  versioned using CVS. The entire CVS history has been imported into
>  Fossil. The older CVS repository remains on the website but is
>  read\-only.
>  There are two major enhancements in SQLite version 3\.6\.18\. The first
>  is a series or refinements to the query planner that help SQLite to
>  choose better plans for joins where in the past it was selecting suboptimal
>  query plans. The [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT2](compile.html#enable_stat2) compile\-time option has been
>  added to cause SQLite to collect histogram data on indices when the
>  [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command is run. The use of histograms improve the query
>  planning performance even more.
> 
> 
>  The second major enhancement is that SQLite now support recursive
>  triggers. The older non\-recursive behavior of triggers is still the
>  default behavior. Recursive triggers are activated using the
>  [recursive\_triggers pragma](pragma.html#pragma_recursive_triggers). In addition to allowing triggers to
>  call themselves (either directly or indirectly) the new capability
>  also fires DELETE triggers on rows that are removed from a table
>  as a result of [REPLACE](lang_conflict.html) conflict resolution processing.
> 
> 
>  Non\-recursive triggers are still the default behavior since this
>  is least likely to cause problems for existing applications. However,
>  we anticipate that triggers will become
>  recursive by default beginning with release 3\.7\.0\. At that point,
>  applications that want to continue using the older non\-recursive
>  trigger behavior will need to use the [recursive\_triggers pragma](pragma.html#pragma_recursive_triggers)
>  to disable recursive triggers.
> 
> 
>  This version of SQLite also contains bug fixes, though none of the
>  bugs are serious and all are obscure, so upgrading is optional.
> 
> 
>  The SQLite core continues to have [100% branch test coverage](testing.html#coverage)
>  and so despite the many changes in this release, the developers
>  believe that this version of SQLite is stable and ready for production
>  use.



---

