## SQLite Release 3\.7\.11 On 2012\-03\-20

1. Enhance the [INSERT](../lang_insert.html) syntax to allow multiple rows to be inserted
 via the VALUES clause.
- Enhance the [CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE](../lang_createvtab.html) command to support the
 IF NOT EXISTS clause.
- Added the [sqlite3\_stricmp()](../c3ref/stricmp.html) interface as a counterpart to
 [sqlite3\_strnicmp()](../c3ref/stricmp.html).
- Added the [sqlite3\_db\_readonly()](../c3ref/db_readonly.html) interface.
- Added the [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_PRAGMA](../c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntlpragma) file control, giving [VFS](../vfs.html) implementations
 the ability to add new [PRAGMA](../pragma.html#syntax) statements or to override built\-in
 PRAGMAs.
- Queries of the form: "SELECT max(x), y FROM table" returns the
 value of y on the same row that contains the maximum x value.
- Added support for the [FTS4 languageid option](../fts3.html#*fts4languageid).
- Documented support for the [FTS4 content option](../fts3.html#*fts4content). This feature has
 actually been in the code since [version 3\.7\.9](../releaselog/3_7_9.html) but is only now considered
 to be officially supported.
- Pending statements no longer block [ROLLBACK](../lang_transaction.html). Instead, the pending
 statement will return SQLITE\_ABORT upon next access after the ROLLBACK.
- Improvements to the handling of CSV inputs in the [command\-line shell](../cli.html)- Fix a [bug](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/b7c8682cc1) introduced
 in [version 3\.7\.10](../releaselog/3_7_10.html) that might cause a LEFT JOIN
 to be incorrectly converted into an INNER JOIN if the WHERE clause
 indexable terms connected by OR.

- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID:
 "2012\-03\-20 11:35:50 00bb9c9ce4f465e6ac321ced2a9d0062dc364669"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: d460d7eda3a9dccd291aed2a9fda868b9b120a10



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


