### 3\.0   Comparison and Sort Order



SQLite is typeless for the purpose of deciding what data is allowed
to be stored in a column. But some notion of type comes into play
when sorting and comparing data. For these purposes, a column or
an expression can be one of two types: **numeric** and **text**.
The sort or comparison may give different results depending on which
type of data is being sorted or compared.




If data is of type **text** then the comparison is determined by
the standard C data comparison functions **memcmp()** or
**strcmp()**. The comparison looks at bytes from two inputs one
by one and returns the first non\-zero difference.
Strings are '\\000' terminated so shorter
strings sort before longer strings, as you would expect.




For numeric data, this situation is more complex. If both inputs
look like well\-formed numbers, then they are converted
into floating point values using **atof()** and compared numerically.
If one input is not a well\-formed number but the other is, then the
number is considered to be less than the non\-number. If neither inputs
is a well\-formed number, then **strcmp()** is used to do the
comparison.




Do not be confused by the fact that a column might have a "numeric"
datatype. This does not mean that the column can contain only numbers.
It merely means that if the column does contain a number, that number
will sort in numerical order.




For both text and numeric values, NULL sorts before any other value.
A comparison of any value against NULL using operators like "\<" or
"\>\=" is always false.



