### 4\.0   How SQLite Determines Datatypes



For SQLite version 2\.6\.3 and earlier, all values used the numeric datatype.
The text datatype appears in version 2\.7\.0 and later. In the sequel it
is assumed that you are using version 2\.7\.0 or later of SQLite.




For an expression, the datatype of the result is often determined by
the outermost operator. For example, arithmetic operators ("\+", "\*", "%")
always return a numeric results. The string concatenation operator
("\|\|") returns a text result. And so forth. If you are ever in doubt
about the datatype of an expression you can use the special **typeof()**
SQL function to determine what the datatype is. For example:




> ```
> 
> sqlite> SELECT typeof('abc'+123);
> numeric
> sqlite> SELECT typeof('abc'||123);
> text
> 
> ```



For table columns, the datatype is determined by the type declaration
of the CREATE TABLE statement. The datatype is text if and only if
the type declaration contains one or more of the following strings:




> BLOB  
> 
> CHAR  
> 
> CLOB  
> 
> TEXT



The search for these strings in the type declaration is case insensitive,
of course. If any of the above strings occur anywhere in the type
declaration, then the datatype of the column is text. Notice that
the type "VARCHAR" contains "CHAR" as a substring so it is considered
text.


If none of the strings above occur anywhere in the type declaration,
then the datatype is numeric. Note in particular that the datatype for columns
with an empty type declaration is numeric.



