### 5\.0   Examples



Consider the following two command sequences:




> ```
> 
> CREATE TABLE t1(a INTEGER UNIQUE);        CREATE TABLE t2(b TEXT UNIQUE);
> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES('0');               INSERT INTO t2 VALUES(0);
> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES('0.0');             INSERT INTO t2 VALUES(0.0);
> 
> ```


In the sequence on the left, the second insert will fail. In this case,
the strings '0' and '0\.0' are treated as numbers since they are being 
inserted into a numeric column but 0\=\=0\.0 which violates the uniqueness
constraint. However, the second insert in the right\-hand sequence works. In
this case, the constants 0 and 0\.0 are treated a strings which means that
they are distinct.


SQLite always converts numbers into double\-precision (64\-bit) floats
for comparison purposes. This means that a long sequence of digits that
differ only in insignificant digits will compare equal if they
are in a numeric column but will compare unequal if they are in a text
column. We have:



> ```
> 
> INSERT INTO t1                            INSERT INTO t2
>    VALUES('12345678901234567890');           VALUES(12345678901234567890);
> INSERT INTO t1                            INSERT INTO t2
>    VALUES('12345678901234567891');           VALUES(12345678901234567891);
> 
> ```


As before, the second insert on the left will fail because the comparison
will convert both strings into floating\-point number first and the only
difference in the strings is in the 20\-th digit which exceeds the resolution
of a 64\-bit float. In contrast, the second insert on the right will work
because in that case, the numbers being inserted are strings and are
compared using memcmp().



Numeric and text types make a difference for the DISTINCT keyword too:




> ```
> 
> CREATE TABLE t3(a INTEGER);               CREATE TABLE t4(b TEXT);
> INSERT INTO t3 VALUES('0');               INSERT INTO t4 VALUES(0);
> INSERT INTO t3 VALUES('0.0');             INSERT INTO t4 VALUES(0.0);
> SELECT DISTINCT * FROM t3;                SELECT DISTINCT * FROM t4;
> 
> ```



The SELECT statement on the left returns a single row since '0' and '0\.0'
are treated as numbers and are therefore indistinct. But the SELECT 
statement on the right returns two rows since 0 and 0\.0 are treated
a strings which are different.


*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


