## Prepare Flags




> ```
> 
> #define SQLITE_PREPARE_PERSISTENT              0x01
> #define SQLITE_PREPARE_NORMALIZE               0x02
> #define SQLITE_PREPARE_NO_VTAB                 0x04
> 
> ```



These constants define various flags that can be passed into
"prepFlags" parameter of the [sqlite3\_prepare\_v3()](#sqlite3_prepare) and
[sqlite3\_prepare16\_v3()](#sqlite3_prepare) interfaces.


New flags may be added in future releases of SQLite.




SQLITE\_PREPARE\_PERSISTENT
The SQLITE\_PREPARE\_PERSISTENT flag is a hint to the query planner
that the prepared statement will be retained for a long time and
probably reused many times. Without this flag, [sqlite3\_prepare\_v3()](#sqlite3_prepare)
and [sqlite3\_prepare16\_v3()](#sqlite3_prepare) assume that the prepared statement will
be used just once or at most a few times and then destroyed using
[sqlite3\_finalize()](#sqlite3_finalize) relatively soon. The current implementation acts
on this hint by avoiding the use of [lookaside memory](malloc.html#lookaside) so as not to
deplete the limited store of lookaside memory. Future versions of
SQLite may act on this hint differently.



SQLITE\_PREPARE\_NORMALIZE
The SQLITE\_PREPARE\_NORMALIZE flag is a no\-op. This flag used
to be required for any prepared statement that wanted to use the
[sqlite3\_normalized\_sql()](#sqlite3_expanded_sql) interface. However, the
[sqlite3\_normalized\_sql()](#sqlite3_expanded_sql) interface is now available to all
prepared statements, regardless of whether or not they use this
flag.



SQLITE\_PREPARE\_NO\_VTAB
The SQLITE\_PREPARE\_NO\_VTAB flag causes the SQL compiler
to return an error (error code SQLITE\_ERROR) if the statement uses
any virtual tables.





---


