## Dynamically Typed Value Object




> ```
> 
> typedef struct sqlite3_value sqlite3_value;
> 
> ```



SQLite uses the sqlite3\_value object to represent all values
that can be stored in a database table. SQLite uses dynamic typing
for the values it stores. Values stored in sqlite3\_value objects
can be integers, floating point values, strings, BLOBs, or NULL.


An sqlite3\_value object may be either "protected" or "unprotected".
Some interfaces require a protected sqlite3\_value. Other interfaces
will accept either a protected or an unprotected sqlite3\_value.
Every interface that accepts sqlite3\_value arguments specifies
whether or not it requires a protected sqlite3\_value. The
[sqlite3\_value\_dup()](#sqlite3_value_dup) interface can be used to construct a new
protected sqlite3\_value from an unprotected sqlite3\_value.


The terms "protected" and "unprotected" refer to whether or not
a mutex is held. An internal mutex is held for a protected
sqlite3\_value object but no mutex is held for an unprotected
sqlite3\_value object. If SQLite is compiled to be single\-threaded
(with [SQLITE\_THREADSAFE\=0](compile.html#threadsafe) and with [sqlite3\_threadsafe()](#sqlite3_threadsafe) returning 0\)
or if SQLite is run in one of reduced mutex modes
[SQLITE\_CONFIG\_SINGLETHREAD](#sqliteconfigsinglethread) or [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_MULTITHREAD](#sqliteconfigmultithread)
then there is no distinction between protected and unprotected
sqlite3\_value objects and they can be used interchangeably. However,
for maximum code portability it is recommended that applications
still make the distinction between protected and unprotected
sqlite3\_value objects even when not strictly required.


The sqlite3\_value objects that are passed as parameters into the
implementation of [application\-defined SQL functions](appfunc.html) are protected.
The sqlite3\_value objects returned by [sqlite3\_vtab\_rhs\_value()](#sqlite3_vtab_rhs_value)
are protected.
The sqlite3\_value object returned by
[sqlite3\_column\_value()](#sqlite3_column_blob) is unprotected.
Unprotected sqlite3\_value objects may only be used as arguments
to [sqlite3\_result\_value()](#sqlite3_result_blob), [sqlite3\_bind\_value()](#sqlite3_bind_blob), and
[sqlite3\_value\_dup()](#sqlite3_value_dup).
The [sqlite3\_value\_type()](#sqlite3_value_blob) family of
interfaces require protected sqlite3\_value objects.


19 Methods using this object:

* [sqlite3\_value\_blob](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_bytes](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_bytes16](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_double](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_dup](#sqlite3_value_dup)
* [sqlite3\_value\_encoding](#sqlite3_value_encoding)
* [sqlite3\_value\_free](#sqlite3_value_dup)
* [sqlite3\_value\_frombind](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_int](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_int64](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_nochange](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_numeric\_type](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_pointer](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_subtype](#sqlite3_value_subtype)
* [sqlite3\_value\_text](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_text16](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_text16be](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_text16le](#sqlite3_value_blob)
* [sqlite3\_value\_type](#sqlite3_value_blob)








---


