## Reset A Prepared Statement Object




> ```
> 
> int sqlite3_reset(sqlite3_stmt *pStmt);
> 
> ```



The sqlite3\_reset() function is called to reset a [prepared statement](#sqlite3_stmt)
object back to its initial state, ready to be re\-executed.
Any SQL statement variables that had values bound to them using
the [sqlite3\_bind\_\*() API](#sqlite3_bind_blob) retain their values.
Use [sqlite3\_clear\_bindings()](#sqlite3_clear_bindings) to reset the bindings.


The [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) interface resets the [prepared statement](#sqlite3_stmt) S
back to the beginning of its program.


The return code from [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) indicates whether or not
the previous evaluation of prepared statement S completed successfully.
If [sqlite3\_step(S)](#sqlite3_step) has never before been called on S or if
[sqlite3\_step(S)](#sqlite3_step) has not been called since the previous call
to [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset), then [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) will return
[SQLITE\_OK](#SQLITE_ABORT).


If the most recent call to [sqlite3\_step(S)](#sqlite3_step) for the
[prepared statement](#sqlite3_stmt) S indicated an error, then
[sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) returns an appropriate [error code](rescode.html).
The [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) interface might also return an [error code](rescode.html)
if there were no prior errors but the process of resetting
the prepared statement caused a new error. For example, if an
[INSERT](lang_insert.html) statement with a [RETURNING](lang_returning.html) clause is only stepped one time,
that one call to [sqlite3\_step(S)](#sqlite3_step) might return SQLITE\_ROW but
the overall statement might still fail and the [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) call
might return SQLITE\_BUSY if locking constraints prevent the
database change from committing. Therefore, it is important that
applications check the return code from [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) even if
no prior call to [sqlite3\_step(S)](#sqlite3_step) indicated a problem.


The [sqlite3\_reset(S)](#sqlite3_reset) interface does not change the values
of any [bindings](#sqlite3_bind_blob) on the [prepared statement](#sqlite3_stmt) S.




---


