# 1\. Overview



The CSV virtual table reads
[RFC 4180](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4180.txt) formatted comma\-separated
values, and returns that content as if it were rows and columns of an SQL
table.




The CSV virtual table is useful to applications that need to bulk\-load
large amounts of comma\-separated value content.
The CSV virtual table is also useful as a template source file for
implementing other virtual tables.




The CSV virtual table is not built into the SQLite amalgamation.
It is available as a
[separate source file](https://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact?ci=trunk&filename=ext/misc/csv.c)
that can be compiled into a [loadable extension](loadext.html).
Typical usage of the CSV virtual table from the
[command\-line shell](cli.html) would be something like this:




```
.load ./csv
CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE temp.t1 USING csv(filename='thefile.csv');
SELECT * FROM t1;

```


The first line of the script above causes the [command\-line shell](cli.html) to
read and activate the run\-time loadable extension for CSV. For an
application, the equivalent C\-language API is
[sqlite3\_load\_extension()](c3ref/load_extension.html).
Observe that the filename extension (ex: ".dll" or ".so" or ".dylib") is
omitted from the extension filename. Omitting the filename extension is
not required, but it helps in making the script cross\-platform. SQLite
will automatically append the appropriate extension.




The second line above creates a virtual table named "t1" that reads
the content of the file named in the argument. The number and names of
the columns is determined automatically by reading the first line of
content. Other options to the CSV virtual table provide the ability to
take the CSV content from a string rather than a separate file, and give 
the programmer more control over the number and names of the columns.
The options are detailed below. The CSV virtual table is usually
created as a TEMP table so that it exists only for the current database
connection and does not become a permanent part of the database schema.
Note that there is no "CREATE TEMP VIRTUAL TABLE" command in SQLite.
Instead, prepend the "temp." schema prefix to the name of the virtual
table.




The third line of the example shows the virtual table being used, to read
all content of the CSV file. This is perhaps the simplest possible use
of the virtual table. The CSV virtual table can be used anywhere an ordinary
virtual table can be used. One can use the CSV virtual table inside subqueries,
or [common table expressions](lang_with.html) or add WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING, ORDER BY,
and LIMIT clauses as required.



