# 2\. Arguments



The example above showed a single **filename\='thefile.csv'** argument
for the CSV virtual table. But other arguments are also possible.



* **filename\=***FILENAME*


The **filename\=** argument specifies an external file from which
CSV content is read. Every CSV virtual table must have either a 
**filename\=** argument or a **data\=** argument and not both.
* **data\=***TEXT*


The **data\=** argument specifies that *TEXT* is the literal
content of the CSV file.
* **schema\=***SCHEMA*


 The **schema\=** argument specifies a [CREATE TABLE](lang_createtable.html) statement that
the CSV virtual table passes to the [sqlite3\_declare\_vtab()](c3ref/declare_vtab.html) interface in
order to define the names of the columns in the virtual table.
* **columns\=***N*


The **columns\=***N* argument specifies the number of columns
in the CSV file.
If the input data contains more columns than this,
then the excess columns are ignored. If the input data contains fewer columns,
then extra columns are filled with NULL.
If the **columns\=***N* argument is omitted, the first line of the
CSV file is read to determine the number of columns.
* **header\=***BOOLEAN*  

or just  

**header**


If the **header** argument is true then the first row of the CSV file
to be treated as a header rather than as data. The second line of the CSV
file becomes the first row of content.
If the **schema\=** options is omitted, then the first line of the CSV
file determines the names of the columns.


