## SQLite Release 3\.29\.0 On 2019\-07\-10

1. Added the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DML](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdqsdml) and [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DQS\_DDL](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdqsddl)
 actions to [sqlite3\_db\_config()](../c3ref/db_config.html) for activating and deactivating
 the [double\-quoted string literal](../quirks.html#dblquote) misfeature. Both default to "on"
 for legacy compatibility, but developers are encouraged to turn them
 "off", perhaps using the [\-DSQLITE\_DQS\=0](../compile.html#dqs) compile\-time option.
- [\-DSQLITE\_DQS\=0](../compile.html#dqs) is now a [recommended compile\-time option](../compile.html#rcmd).
- Improvements to the [query planner](../optoverview.html):
	1. Improved optimization of AND and OR operators when one or the other
	 operand is a constant.
	 - Enhancements to the [LIKE optimization](../optoverview.html#like_opt) for cases when the left\-hand
	 side column has numeric affinity.- Added the "[sqlite\_dbdata](https://sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/dbdata.c)"
 virtual table for extracting raw low\-level content from an SQLite database,
 even a database that is corrupt.
 - Improvements to rounding behavior, so that the results of rounding
 binary numbers using the [round()](../lang_corefunc.html#round) function are closer to what people
 who are used to thinking in decimal actually expect.
 - Enhancements to the [CLI](../cli.html):
	1. Add the ".recover" command which tries to recover as much content
	 as possible from a corrupt database file.
	 - Add the ".filectrl" command useful for testing.
	 - Add the long\-standing ".testctrl" command to the ".help" menu.
	 - Added the ".dbconfig" command**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2019\-07\-10 17:32:03 fc82b73eaac8b36950e527f12c4b5dc1e147e6f4ad2217ae43ad82882a88bfa6
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: d9a5daf7697a827f4b2638276ce639fa04e8e8bb5fd3a6b683cfad10f1c81b12



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


