# 1\. Situations Where SQLite Works Well


* **Embedded devices and the internet of things**
Because an SQLite database requires no administration,
it works well in devices that must operate without expert human support.
SQLite is a good fit for use in 
cellphones, set\-top boxes, televisions, game consoles,
cameras, watches, kitchen appliances, thermostats, automobiles, 
machine tools, airplanes, remote sensors, drones, medical devices,
and robots: the "internet of things".



Client/server database engines are designed to live inside a
lovingly\-attended datacenter at the core of the network.
SQLite works there too, but SQLite also thrives at the edge of the network,
fending for itself while providing fast and
reliable data services to applications that would otherwise
have dodgy connectivity.
* **Application file format**



SQLite is often used as the on\-disk file format
for desktop applications such as version control systems,
financial analysis tools, media cataloging and editing suites, CAD
packages, record keeping programs, and so forth. The traditional
File/Open operation calls sqlite3\_open() to attach to the database
file. Updates happen automatically as application content is revised
so the File/Save menu option becomes superfluous. The File/Save\_As
menu option can be implemented using the [backup API](backup.html).



There are many benefits to this approach, including improved
performance, reduced cost and complexity, and
improved reliability. See technical notes
["aff\_short.html"](aff_short.html) and 
["appfileformat.html"](appfileformat.html) and
["fasterthanfs.html"](fasterthanfs.html) for more information.
This use case is closely related to the
[data transfer format](#wireproto) and
[data container](#container) use cases below.
* **Websites**


SQLite works great as the database engine for most low to
medium traffic websites (which is to say, most websites).
The amount of web traffic that SQLite can handle depends
on how heavily the website uses its database. Generally
speaking, any site that gets fewer than 100K hits/day should work
fine with SQLite.
The 100K hits/day figure is a conservative estimate, not a
hard upper bound.
SQLite has been demonstrated to work with 10 times that amount
of traffic.


The SQLite website (<https://www.sqlite.org/>) uses SQLite itself,
of course, and as of this writing (2015\) it handles about 400K to 500K
HTTP requests per day, about 15\-20% of which are dynamic pages touching
the database. Dynamic content uses [about 200 SQL statements per webpage](np1queryprob.html).
This setup runs on a single VM that shares a physical server with 23 others
and yet still keeps the load average below 0\.1 most of the time.



See also: [Hacker New discussion from 2022\-12\-13](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33975635).
* **Data analysis**



People who understand SQL can employ the 
[sqlite3 command\-line shell](cli.html) (or various third\-party
SQLite access programs) to analyze large
datasets. Raw data can be imported from CSV files, then that
data can be sliced and diced to generate a myriad of summary
reports. More complex analysis can be done using simple scripts written
in Tcl or Python (both of which come with SQLite built\-in) or in R or
other languages using readily available adaptors.
Possible uses include website log analysis, sports
statistics analysis, compilation of programming metrics, and
analysis of experimental results. Many bioinformatics researchers
use SQLite in this way.




The same thing can be done with an enterprise client/server
database, of course. The advantage of SQLite is
that it is easier to install and use and the resulting database 
is a single file that can be written to a USB memory stick
or emailed to a colleague.
* **Cache for enterprise data**



Many applications use SQLite as a cache of relevant content from
an enterprise RDBMS.
This reduces latency, since most queries now occur against the local
cache and avoid a network round\-trip. It also reduces the load 
on the network and on the central database server. And in many cases, 
it means that the client\-side application can continue operating during
network outages.
* **Server\-side database**



Systems designers
report success using SQLite as a data store on server applications
running in the datacenter, or in other words, using SQLite as the underlying
storage engine for an application\-specific database server.


With this pattern, the overall system is still client/server:
clients send requests to the server and get back replies over the network.
But instead of sending generic SQL and getting back raw table content, 
the client requests and server responses are high\-level and 
application\-specific.
The server translates requests into multiple SQL queries, gathers the
results, does post\-processing, filtering, and analysis, then constructs
a high\-level reply containing only the essential information.


Developers report that SQLite is often faster than a client/server
SQL database engine in this scenario.
Database requests are serialized by the server, so concurrency is not
an issue. Concurrency is also improved by "database sharding":
using separate database files for different subdomains. For
example, the server might have a separate SQLite database for each
user, so that the server can handle hundreds or thousands of simultaneous
connections, but each SQLite database is only used by one connection.
* **Data transfer format**




Because an SQLite database is a single compact file in a
[well\-defined cross\-platform format](fileformat2.html), it is often used
as a container for transferring content from one system to another.
The sender gathers content into an SQLite database file, transfers
that one file to the receiver, then the receiver uses SQL to extract
the content as needed.



An SQLite database facilitates data transfer between systems even
when the endpoints have different word sizes and/or byte orders.
The data can be a complex mix of large binary blobs, text, and small
numeric or boolean values. The data format can be easily extended
by adding new tables and/or columns, without breaking legacy receivers.
The SQL query language means that receivers are not required to parse
the entire transfer all at once, but can instead query the
received content as needed. The data format is "transparent" in the
sense that it is easily decoded for human viewing using 
a variety of universally available, open\-source tools, from multiple
vendors.
* **File archive and/or data container**



The [SQLite Archive](sqlar.html) idea shows how
SQLite can be used as a substitute for ZIP archives or Tarballs.
An archive of files stored in SQLite is only very slightly larger, and
in some cases actually smaller, than the equivalent ZIP archive.
And an SQLite archive features incremental and atomic updating
and the ability to store much richer metadata.



[Fossil](https://www.fossil-scm.org/) version 2\.5 and later offers
[SQLite Archive files](sqlar.html) as a download format, in addition
to traditional tarball and ZIP archive.
The [sqlite3\.exe command\-line shell](cli.html) version 3\.22\.0 and later will create,
list, or unpack an SQL archiving using the 
[.archive command](cli.html#sqlar).



SQLite is a good solution for any situation that requires bundling
diverse content into a self\-contained and self\-describing package 
for shipment across a network.
Content is encoded in a 
[well\-defined, cross\-platform, and stable file format](fileformat2.html).
The encoding is efficient, and receivers can extract small subsets
of the content without having to read and parse the entire file.



SQL archives are useful as the distribution format for software
or content updates that are broadcast to many clients. Variations
on this idea are used, for example, to transmit TV programming guides
to set\-top boxes and to send over\-the\-air updates to vehicle navigation
systems.
* **Replacement for *ad hoc* disk files**


Many programs use 
[fopen()](http://man.he.net/man3/fopen),
[fread()](http://man.he.net/man3/fread), and 
[fwrite()](http://man.he.net/man3/fwrite) to create and
manage files of data in home\-grown formats. SQLite works 
particularly well as a
replacement for these *ad hoc* data files.
Contrary to intuition, SQLite can be [faster than the filesystem](fasterthanfs.html)
for reading and writing content to disk.
* **Internal or temporary databases**



For programs that have a lot of data that must be sifted and sorted
in diverse ways, it is often easier and quicker to load the data into
an in\-memory SQLite database and use queries with joins and ORDER BY
clauses to extract the data in the form and order needed rather than
to try to code the same operations manually.
Using an SQL database internally in this way also gives the program
greater flexibility since new columns and indices can be added without
having to recode every query.
* **Stand\-in for an enterprise database during demos or testing**



Client applications typically use a generic database interface that allows
connections to various SQL database engines. It makes good sense to 
include SQLite in the mix of supported databases and to statically
link the SQLite engine in with the client. That way the client program
can be used standalone with an SQLite data file for testing or for
demonstrations.
* **Education and Training**



Because it is simple to setup and use (installation is trivial: just
copy the **sqlite3** or **sqlite3\.exe** executable to the target machine
and run it) SQLite makes a good database engine for use in teaching SQL.
Students can easily create as many databases as they like and can
email databases to the instructor for comments or grading. For more
advanced students who are interested in studying how an RDBMS is
implemented, the modular and well\-commented and documented SQLite code
can serve as a good basis.
* **Experimental SQL language extensions**


The simple, modular design of SQLite makes it a good platform for
prototyping new, experimental database language features or ideas.


