# 3\. Checklist For Choosing The Right Database Engine


1. **Is the data separated from the application by a network?
 → choose client/server**


Relational database engines act as bandwidth\-reducing data filters.
So it is best to keep the database engine and the data on
the same physical device so that the high\-bandwidth engine\-to\-disk
link does not have to traverse the network, only the lower\-bandwidth
application\-to\-engine link.



But SQLite is built into the application. So if the data is on a
separate device from the application, it is required that the higher
bandwidth engine\-to\-disk link be across the network. This works, but
it is suboptimal. Hence, it is usually better to select a client/server
database engine when the data is on a separate device from the
application.



*Nota Bene:*
In this rule, "application" means the code that issues SQL statements.
If the "application" is an [application server](whentouse.html#serversidedb) and
if the content resides on the same physical machine as the application server,
then SQLite might still be appropriate even though the end user is
another network hop away.
2. **Many concurrent writers? → choose client/server**


If many threads and/or processes need to write the
database at the same instant (and they cannot queue up and take turns)
then it is best to select a database engine that supports that
capability, which always means a client/server database engine.



SQLite only supports one writer at a time per database file.
But in most cases, a write transaction only takes milliseconds and
so multiple writers can simply take turns. SQLite will handle
more write concurrency than many people suspect. Nevertheless,
client/server database systems, because they have a long\-running
server process at hand to coordinate access, can usually handle 
far more write concurrency than SQLite ever will.
3. **Big data? → choose client/server**


If your data will grow to a size that you are uncomfortable
or unable to fit into a single disk file, then you should select
a solution other than SQLite. SQLite supports databases up to
281 terabytes in size, assuming you can find a disk drive and filesystem
that will support 281\-terabyte files. Even so, when the size of the
content looks like it might creep into the terabyte range, it would
be good to consider a centralized client/server database.
4. **Otherwise → choose SQLite!**


For device\-local storage with low writer concurrency and less than a
terabyte of content, SQLite is almost always a better solution. SQLite
is fast and reliable and it requires no configuration or maintenance.
It keeps things simple. SQLite "just works".


*This page last modified on [2024\-04\-03 17:48:26](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


