## SQLite Release 3\.5\.4 On 2007\-12\-14

1. Fix a critical bug in UPDATE or DELETE that occurs when an
OR REPLACE clause or a trigger causes rows in the same table to
be deleted as side effects. (See ticket \#2832\.) The most likely
result of this bug is a segmentation fault, though database
corruption is a possibility.
2. Bring the processing of ORDER BY into compliance with the
SQL standard for case where a result alias and a table column name
are in conflict. Correct behavior is to prefer the result alias.
Older versions of SQLite incorrectly picked the table column.
(See ticket \#2822\.)
3. The [VACUUM](../lang_vacuum.html) command preserves
the setting of the
[legacy\_file\_format pragma](../pragma.html#pragma_legacy_file_format).
(Ticket \#2804\.)
4. Productize and officially support the group\_concat() SQL function.
5. Better optimization of some IN operator expressions.
6. Add the ability to change the
[auto\_vacuum](../pragma.html#pragma_auto_vacuum) status of a
database by setting the auto\_vaccum pragma and VACUUMing the database.
7. Prefix search in FTS3 is much more efficient.
8. Relax the SQL statement length restriction in the CLI so that
the ".dump" output of databases with very large BLOBs and strings can
be played back to recreate the database.
9. Other small bug fixes and optimizations.



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


