## 2\.1\. Record Format


The data for a table b\-tree leaf page and the key
of an index b\-tree page was characterized above
as an arbitrary sequence of bytes.
The prior discussion mentioned one key being less than another, but
did not define what "less than" meant. The current section will address
these omissions.


Payload, either table b\-tree data or index b\-tree keys, 
is always in the "record format".
The record format defines a sequence of values corresponding
to columns in a table or index. The record format specifies the number
of columns, the datatype of each column, and the content of each column.


The record format makes extensive use of the 
[variable\-length integer](fileformat2.html#varint) or [varint](fileformat2.html#varint)
representation of 64\-bit signed integers defined above.



A record contains a header and a body, in that order. 
The header begins with a single varint which determines the total number
of bytes in the header. The varint value is the size of the header in
bytes including the size varint itself. Following the size varint are
one or more additional varints, one per column. These additional varints
are called "serial type" numbers and
determine the datatype of each column, according to the following chart:



*Serial Type Codes Of The Record Format*  



| Serial Type | Content Size | Meaning |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | 0 | Value is a NULL. |
| 1 | 1 | Value is an 8\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 2 | 2 | Value is a big\-endian 16\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 3 | 3 | Value is a big\-endian 24\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 4 | 4 | Value is a big\-endian 32\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 5 | 6 | Value is a big\-endian 48\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 6 | 8 | Value is a big\-endian 64\-bit twos\-complement integer. |
| 7 | 8 | Value is a big\-endian IEEE 754\-2008 64\-bit floating point number. |
| 8 | 0 | Value is the integer 0\. (Only available for [schema format](fileformat2.html#schemaformat) 4 and higher.) |
| 9 | 0 | Value is the integer 1\. (Only available for [schema format](fileformat2.html#schemaformat) 4 and higher.) |
| 10,11 | *variable* | *Reserved for internal use. These serial type codes will  never appear in a well\-formed database file, but they  might be used in transient and temporary database files  that SQLite sometimes generates for its own use.  The meanings of these codes can shift from one release  of SQLite to the next.* |
| N≥12 and even | (N\-12\)/2 | Value is a BLOB that is (N\-12\)/2 bytes in length. |
| N≥13 and odd | (N\-13\)/2 | Value is a string in the [text encoding](fileformat2.html#enc) and (N\-13\)/2 bytes in length. The nul terminator is not stored. |


The header size varint
and serial type varints will usually consist of a single byte. The
serial type varints for large strings and BLOBs might extend to two or three
byte varints, but that is the exception rather than the rule. 
The varint format is very efficient at coding the record header.


The values for each column in the record immediately follow the header.
For serial types 0, 8, 9, 12, and 13, the value is zero bytes in
length. If all columns are of these types then the body section of the
record is empty.


A record might have fewer values than the number of columns in the
corresponding table. This can happen, for example, after an
[ALTER TABLE ... ADD COLUMN](lang_altertable.html) SQL statement has increased
the number of columns in the table schema without modifying preexisting rows
in the table.
Missing values at the end of the record are filled in using the
[default value](lang_createtable.html#dfltval) for the corresponding columns defined in the table schema.



