## 2\.2\. Record Sort Order


The order of keys in an index b\-tree is determined by the sort order of
the records that the keys represent. Record comparison progresses column
by column. Columns of a record are examined from left to right. The
first pair of columns that are not equal determines the relative order
of the two records. The sort order of individual columns is as
follows:


1. NULL values (serial type 0\) sort first.
2. Numeric values (serial types 1 through 9\) sort after NULLs
 and in numeric order.
3. Text values (odd serial types 13 and larger) sort after numeric
 values in the order determined by the columns [collating function](datatype3.html#collation).
4. BLOB values (even serial types 12 and larger) sort last and in the order 
 determined by memcmp().


A [collating function](datatype3.html#collation) for each column is necessary in order to compute
the order of text fields.
SQLite defines three built\-in collating functions:




> | BINARY | The built\-in BINARY collation compares strings byte by byte  using the memcmp() function  from the standard C library. |
> | --- | --- |
> | NOCASE | The NOCASE collation is like BINARY except that uppercase  ASCII characters ('A' through 'Z')  are folded into their lowercase equivalents prior to running the  comparison. Only ASCII characters are case\-folded.  NOCASE  does not implement a general purpose unicode caseless comparison. |
> | RTRIM | RTRIM is like BINARY except that extra spaces at the end of either  string do not change the result. In other words, strings will  compare equal to one another as long as they  differ only in the number of spaces at the end. |


Additional application\-specific collating functions can be added to
SQLite using the [sqlite3\_create\_collation()](c3ref/create_collation.html) interface.


The default collating function for all strings is BINARY.
Alternative collating functions for table columns can be specified in the
[CREATE TABLE](lang_createtable.html) statement using the COLLATE clause on the [column definition](lang_createtable.html#tablecoldef).
When a column is indexed, the same collating function specified in the
[CREATE TABLE](lang_createtable.html) statement is used for the column in the index, by default,
though this can be overridden using a COLLATE clause in the 
[CREATE INDEX](lang_createindex.html) statement.




