## 1\.2\. Pages


The main database file consists of one or more pages. The size of a
page is a power of two between 512 and 65536 inclusive. All pages within
the same database are the same size. The page size for a database file
is determined by the 2\-byte integer located at an offset of
16 bytes from the beginning of the database file.


Pages are numbered beginning with 1\. The maximum page number is
4294967294 (232 \- 2\). The minimum size
SQLite database is a single 512\-byte page.
The maximum size database would be 4294967294 pages at 65536 bytes per
page or 281,474,976,579,584 bytes (about 281 terabytes). Usually SQLite will
hit the maximum file size limit of the underlying filesystem or disk
hardware long before it hits its own internal size limit.


In common use, SQLite databases tend to range in size from a few kilobytes
to a few gigabytes, though terabyte\-size SQLite databases are known to exist
in production.


At any point in time, every page in the main database has a single
use which is one of the following:


* The lock\-byte page
* A freelist page
	+ A freelist trunk page
	+ A freelist leaf page
* A b\-tree page
	+ A table b\-tree interior page
	+ A table b\-tree leaf page
	+ An index b\-tree interior page
	+ An index b\-tree leaf page
* A payload overflow page
* A pointer map page


All reads from and writes to the main database file begin at a page
boundary and all writes are an integer number of pages in size. Reads
are also usually an integer number of pages in size, with the one exception
that when the database is first opened, the first 100 bytes of the
database file (the database file header) are read as a sub\-page size unit.


Before any information\-bearing page of the database is modified, 
the original unmodified content of that page is written into the 
rollback journal. If a transaction is interrupted and needs to be 
rolled back, the rollback journal can then be used to restore the
database to its original state. Freelist leaf pages bear no
information that would need to be restored on a rollback and so they
are not written to the journal prior to modification, in order to
reduce disk I/O.



