### 2\.6\.3\. The sqlite\_sequence table


The sqlite\_sequence table is an internal table used to help implement
[AUTOINCREMENT](autoinc.html). The sqlite\_sequence table is created automatically
whenever any ordinary table with an AUTOINCREMENT integer primary
key is created. Once created, the sqlite\_sequence table exists in the
sqlite\_schema table forever; it cannot be dropped.
The schema for the sqlite\_sequence table is:




> ```
> 
> CREATE TABLE sqlite_sequence(name,seq);
> 
> ```


There is a single row in the sqlite\_sequence table for each ordinary
table that uses AUTOINCREMENT. The name of the table (as it appears in
sqlite\_schema.name) is in the sqlite\_sequence.name field and the largest
[INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid) ever inserted into that table is 
in the sqlite\_sequence.seq field. 
New automatically generated integer primary keys for AUTOINCREMENT
tables are guaranteed to be larger than the sqlite\_sequence.seq field for
that table.
If the sqlite\_sequence.seq field of an AUTOINCREMENT table is already at
the largest integer value (9223372036854775807\) then attempts to add new
rows to that table with an automatically generated integer primary will fail
with an [SQLITE\_FULL](rescode.html#full) error.
The sqlite\_sequence.seq field is automatically updated if required when
new entries are inserted to an AUTOINCREMENT table. 
The sqlite\_sequence row for an AUTOINCREMENT table is automatically deleted
when the table is dropped.
If the sqlite\_sequence row for an AUTOINCREMENT table does not exist when
the AUTOINCREMENT table is updated, then a new sqlite\_sequence row is created.
If the sqlite\_sequence.seq value for an AUTOINCREMENT table is manually 
set to something other than an integer and there is a subsequent attempt to
insert the or update the AUTOINCREMENT table, then the behavior is undefined.



Application code is allowed to modify the sqlite\_sequence table, to add
new rows, to delete rows, or to modify existing rows. However, application
code cannot create the sqlite\_sequence table if it does not already exist.
Application code can delete all entries from the sqlite\_sequence table,
but application code cannot drop the sqlite\_sequence table.




