# 1\. Assert() And Similar Macros In SQLite



The assert(X) macro is 
[part of standard C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assert.h), in the
\<assert.h\> header file.
SQLite adds three other assert()\-like macros named NEVER(X), ALWAYS(X),
and testcase(X).



* **assert(X)** →
The assert(X) statement indicates that the condition X is always true.
In other words, X is an invariant. The assert(X) macro works like a
procedure in that it has no return value.
* **ALWAYS(X)** →
The ALWAYS(X) function indicates that condition X is always true as far
as the developers know, but there is no proof the X is true, or the
proof is complex and error\-prone, or the proof depends on implementation
details that are likely to change in the future. ALWAYS(X) behaves like
a function that returns the boolean value X, and is intended to be used
within the conditional of an "if" statement.
* **NEVER(X)** →
The NEVER(X) function indicates that condition X is never true. This
is the negative analog of the ALWAYS(X) function.
* **testcase(X)** →
The testcase(X) statement indicates that X is sometimes true and sometimes
false. In other words, testcase(X) indicates that X is definitely not an
invariant. Since SQLite uses 100% [MC/DC testing](testing.html#mcdc), the presence of a
testcase(X) macro indicates that not only is it possible for X to be either
true or false, but there are test cases to demonstrate this.



SQLite version 3\.22\.0 (2018\-01\-22\) contains 5290 assert() macros,
839 testcase() macros, 88 ALWAYS() macros, and 63 NEVER() macros.



