#### 2\.1\.6 Checklist For Constructing A New VFS


 The preceding paragraphs contain a lot of information.
 To ease the task of constructing
 a new VFS for SQLite we offer the following implementation checklist:




1. Define an appropriate subclass of the [sqlite3\_file](c3ref/file.html) object.
 - Implement the methods required by the [sqlite3\_io\_methods](c3ref/io_methods.html) object.
 - Create a static and 
 constant [sqlite3\_io\_methods](c3ref/io_methods.html) object containing pointers
 to the methods from the previous step.
 - Implement the xOpen method that opens a file and populates an
 [sqlite3\_file](c3ref/file.html) object, including setting pMethods to
 point to the [sqlite3\_io\_methods](c3ref/io_methods.html) object from the previous step.
 - Implement the other methods required by [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html).
 - Define a static (but not constant) [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html) structure that
 contains pointers to the xOpen method and the other methods and
 which contains the appropriate values for iVersion, szOsFile,
 mxPathname, zName, and pAppData.
 - Implement a procedure that calls [sqlite3\_vfs\_register()](c3ref/vfs_find.html) and
 passes it a pointer to the [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html) structure from the previous
 step. This procedure is probably the only exported symbol in the
 source file that implements your VFS.






 Within your application, call the procedure implemented in the last
 step above as part of your initialization process before any
 database connections are opened. 



