## 5\.0 Other Interface Changes


 Version 3\.5\.0 of SQLite changes the behavior of a few APIs in ways
 that are technically incompatible. However, these APIs are seldom
 used and even when they are used it is difficult to imagine a
 scenario where the change might break something. The changes
 actually makes these interface much more useful and powerful.




 Prior to version 3\.5\.0, the [sqlite3\_enable\_shared\_cache()](c3ref/enable_shared_cache.html) API
 would enable and disable the shared cache feature for all connections
 within a single thread \- the same thread from which the 
 sqlite3\_enable\_shared\_cache() routine was called. Database connections
 that used the shared cache were restricted to running in the same
 thread in which they were opened. Beginning with version 3\.5\.0,
 the sqlite3\_enable\_shared\_cache() applies to all database connections
 in all threads within the process. Now database connections running
 in separate threads can share a cache. And database connections that
 use shared cache can migrate from one thread to another.




 Prior to version 3\.5\.0 the [sqlite3\_soft\_heap\_limit()](c3ref/soft_heap_limit.html) set an upper
 bound on heap memory usage for all database connections within a
 single thread. Each thread could have its own heap limit. Beginning
 in version 3\.5\.0, there is a single heap limit for the entire process.
 This seems more restrictive (one limit as opposed to many) but in
 practice it is what most users want.




 Prior to version 3\.5\.0 the [sqlite3\_release\_memory()](c3ref/release_memory.html) function would
 try to reclaim memory from all database connections in the same thread
 as the sqlite3\_release\_memory() call. Beginning with version 3\.5\.0,
 the sqlite3\_release\_memory() function will attempt to reclaim memory
 from all database connections in all threads.



