## Further Information


SQLite is free and works great.
Most people use SQLite without
any kind of license or support.


Free support for SQLite is available on the public
[SQLite Forum](https://sqlite.org/forum/forummain).
The forum is monitored by a large
community of experts, including the core SQLite development team,
who are able to resolve just about
any problems with SQLite that you are likely to have.


If you do not want to discuss your issues on a public and open forum, an
[Annual Maintenance
Subscription](https://sqlite.org/com/ams.html) or "AMS" might
serve your needs better.
An AMS entitles you to private email support directly from the developers of
SQLite. The level of support with an AMS is similar to the support one
gets from the public forum except that an AMS includes a unilateral
promise of non\-disclosure, so with an AMS you can discuss your issues
with the SQLite developers in private, without the whole world watching.
An AMS costs $1500 per year.


Users with more advanced support needs can opt for a
[Technical Support
Agreement](https://sqlite.org/com/tech.html).
Technical support agreements are customized to the needs of each
individual client, but generally include direct telephone support
and priority handling of issues and bugs. Guaranteed response time
is available as an option. The cost of
technical support varies but is generally
in the range of $8000 to $35000 per year.


If SQLite is "mission critical" to your company, then you may
want to become an
[SQLite Consortium
Member](https://sqlite.org/com/member.html). The SQLite
Consortium is a collaboration of companies who sponsor ongoing development
of SQLite in exchange for enterprise\-level technical support, on\-site
visits from the SQLite developers, unlimited access to all licensed
products, and strong guarantees that SQLite will remain in the public
domain, free and independent, and will not come under the control of
a competitor.



