## The Virtual Database Engine of SQLite



> **Obsolete Documentation Warning:**
> This document describes the virtual machine used in SQLite version 2\.8\.0\. 
> The virtual machine in SQLite version 3\.0 and 3\.1 is similar in
> concept but is now register\-based instead of stack\-based, has five
> operands per opcode instead of three, and has a different set of
> opcodes from those shown below. See the [virtual machine instructions](opcode.html)
> document for the current set of VDBE opcodes and a brief overview
> of how the VDBE operates. This document is retained as an historical
> reference.


If you want to know how the SQLite library works internally,
you need to begin with a solid understanding of the Virtual Database
Engine or VDBE. The VDBE occurs right in the middle of the
processing stream (see the [architecture diagram](arch.html))
and so it seems to touch most parts of the library. Even
parts of the code that do not directly interact with the VDBE
are usually in a supporting role. The VDBE really is the heart of
SQLite.


This article is a brief introduction to how the VDBE
works and in particular how the various VDBE instructions
(documented [here](opcode.html)) work together
to do useful things with the database. The style is tutorial,
beginning with simple tasks and working toward solving more
complex problems. Along the way we will visit most
submodules in the SQLite library. After completing this tutorial,
you should have a pretty good understanding of how SQLite works
and will be ready to begin studying the actual source code.


