## Summary


This article has reviewed all of the major techniques used by
SQLite's VDBE to implement SQL statements. What has not been shown
is that most of these techniques can be used in combination to
generate code for an appropriately complex query statement. For
example, we have shown how sorting is accomplished on a simple query
and we have shown how to implement a compound query. But we did
not give an example of sorting in a compound query. This is because
sorting a compound query does not introduce any new concepts: it
merely combines two previous ideas (sorting and compounding)
in the same VDBE program.


For additional information on how the SQLite library
functions, the reader is directed to look at the SQLite source
code directly. If you understand the material in this article,
you should not have much difficulty in following the sources.
Serious students of the internals of SQLite will probably
also want to make a careful study of the VDBE opcodes
as documented [here](opcode.html). Most of the
opcode documentation is extracted from comments in the source
code using a script so you can also get information about the
various opcodes directly from the **vdbe.c** source file.
If you have successfully read this far, you should have little
difficulty understanding the rest.


If you find errors in either the documentation or the code,
feel free to fix them and/or contact the author at
[drh@hwaci.com](mailto:drh@hwaci.com). Your bug fixes or
suggestions are always welcomed.


*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 












