## Preliminaries


The VDBE implements a virtual computer that runs a program in
its virtual machine language. The goal of each program is to 
interrogate or change the database. Toward this end, the machine
language that the VDBE implements is specifically designed to
search, read, and modify databases.


Each instruction of the VDBE language contains an opcode and
three operands labeled P1, P2, and P3\. Operand P1 is an arbitrary
integer. P2 is a non\-negative integer. P3 is a pointer to a data 
structure or zero\-terminated string, possibly null. Only a few VDBE
instructions use all three operands. Many instructions use only
one or two operands. A significant number of instructions use
no operands at all but instead take their data and store their results
on the execution stack. The details of what each instruction
does and which operands it uses are described in the separate
[opcode description](opcode.html) document.


A VDBE program begins
execution on instruction 0 and continues with successive instructions
until it either (1\) encounters a fatal error, (2\) executes a
Halt instruction, or (3\) advances the program counter past the
last instruction of the program. When the VDBE completes execution,
all open database cursors are closed, all memory is freed, and 
everything is popped from the stack.
So there are never any worries about memory leaks or 
undeallocated resources.


If you have done any assembly language programming or have
worked with any kind of abstract machine before, all of these
details should be familiar to you. So let's jump right in and
start looking as some code.



