## SQLite Release 3\.26\.0 On 2018\-12\-01

1. Optimization: When doing an [UPDATE](../lang_update.html) on a table with [indexes on expressions](../expridx.html),
 do not update the expression indexes if they do not refer to any of the columns
 of the table being updated.
- Allow the [xBestIndex()](../vtab.html#xbestindex) method of [virtual table](../vtab.html) implementations to return
 [SQLITE\_CONSTRAINT](../rescode.html#constraint) to indicate that the proposed query plan is unusable and
 should not be given further consideration.
- Added the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DEFENSIVE](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdefensive) option which disables the ability to
 create corrupt database files using ordinary SQL.
- Added support for read\-only [shadow tables](../vtab.html#xshadowname) when the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_DEFENSIVE](../c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigdefensive)
 option is enabled.
- Added the [PRAGMA legacy\_alter\_table](../pragma.html#pragma_legacy_alter_table) command, which if enabled causes the
 [ALTER TABLE](../lang_altertable.html) command to behave like older version of SQLite (prior to
 version 3\.25\.0\) for compatibility.
- Added [PRAGMA table\_xinfo](../pragma.html#pragma_table_xinfo) that works just like [PRAGMA table\_info](../pragma.html#pragma_table_info)
 except that it also shows [hidden columns](../vtab.html#hiddencol) in virtual tables.
- Added the [explain virtual table](https://sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/explain.c)
 as a run\-time loadable extension.
- Add a limit counter to the query planner to prevent excessive
 [sqlite3\_prepare()](../c3ref/prepare.html) times for certain pathological SQL inputs.
- Added support for the [sqlite3\_normalized\_sql()](../c3ref/expanded_sql.html) interface, when compiling
 with SQLITE\_ENABLE\_NORMALIZE.
- Enhanced triggers so that they can use [table\-valued functions](../vtab.html#tabfunc2) that
 exist in schemas other than the schema where the trigger is defined.
- Enhancements to the [CLI](../cli.html):
	1. Improvements to the ".help" command.
	 - The SQLITE\_HISTORY environment variable, if it exists,
	 specifies the name of the command\-line editing history file
	 - The \-\-deserialize option associated with opening a new database cause the
	 database file to be read into memory and accessed using the
	 [sqlite3\_deserialize()](../c3ref/deserialize.html) API. This simplifies running tests on a database
	 without modifying the file on disk.- Enhancements to the [geopoly](../geopoly.html) extension:
	1. Always stores polygons
	 using the binary format, which is faster and uses less space.
	 - Added the [geopoly\_regular()](../geopoly.html#regpoly) function.
	 - Added the [geopoly\_ccw()](../geopoly.html#ccw) function.- Enhancements to the [session](../sessionintro.html) extension:
	1. Added the [SQLITE\_CHANGESETAPPLY\_INVERT](../session/c_changesetapply_fknoaction.html) flag
	 - Added the [sqlite3changeset\_start\_v2()](../session/sqlite3changeset_start.html) interface and the
	 [SQLITE\_CHANGESETSTART\_INVERT](../session/c_changesetstart_invert.html) flag.
	 - Added the
	 [changesetfuzz.c](https://sqlite.org/src/file/ext/session/changesetfuzz.c)
	 test\-case generator utility.**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2018\-12\-01 12:34:55 bf8c1b2b7a5960c282e543b9c293686dccff272512d08865f4600fb58238b4f9"
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: 72c08830da9b5d1cb397c612c0e870d7f5eb41a323b41aa3d8aa5ae9ccedb2c4



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


