# 6\. Limits and Unsupported Features



 This section lists a few limitations and omitted features that are not
 mentioned elsewhere.

 

1. **No support for the MATCH clause.** According to SQL92, a MATCH clause
 may be attached to a composite foreign key definition to modify the way
 NULL values that occur in child keys are handled. If "MATCH SIMPLE" is
 specified, then a child key is not required to correspond to any row
 of the parent table if one or more of the child key values are NULL.
 If "MATCH FULL" is specified, then if any of the child key values is
 NULL, no corresponding row in the parent table is required, but all
 child key values must be NULL. Finally, if the foreign key constraint
 is declared as "MATCH PARTIAL" and one of the child key values is NULL,
 there must exist at least one row in the parent table for which the
 non\-NULL child key values match the parent key values.

 


 SQLite parses MATCH clauses (i.e. does not report a syntax error
 if you specify one), but does not enforce them. All foreign key 
 constraints in SQLite are handled as if MATCH SIMPLE were specified.
2. **No support for switching constraints between deferred and immediate 
 mode.** Many systems allow the user to toggle individual foreign key
 constraints between [deferred](#fk_deferred) and immediate 
 mode at runtime (for example using the Oracle "SET CONSTRAINT" command).
 SQLite does not support this. In SQLite, a foreign key constraint is
 permanently marked as deferred or immediate when it is created.
3. **Recursion limit on foreign key actions.** The 
 [SQLITE\_MAX\_TRIGGER\_DEPTH](limits.html#max_trigger_depth) and [SQLITE\_LIMIT\_TRIGGER\_DEPTH](c3ref/c_limit_attached.html#sqlitelimittriggerdepth)
 settings determine the maximum allowable depth of trigger
 program recursion. For the purposes of these limits,
 [foreign key actions](foreignkeys.html#fk_actions) are considered trigger programs. The
 [PRAGMA recursive\_triggers](pragma.html#pragma_recursive_triggers) setting does not affect the operation 
 of foreign key actions. It is not possible to disable recursive foreign
 key actions.
4. **Foreign keys may not cross schema boundaries.** That is, in
 `REFERENCES (X.Y)` table `X` will only be resolved
 within the schema which contains the `REFERENCES` clause.


*This page last modified on [2024\-01\-23 13:08:17](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


