## Configuring The SQLite Library




> ```
> 
> int sqlite3_config(int, ...);
> 
> ```



The sqlite3\_config() interface is used to make global configuration
changes to SQLite in order to tune SQLite to the specific needs of
the application. The default configuration is recommended for most
applications and so this routine is usually not necessary. It is
provided to support rare applications with unusual needs.


**The sqlite3\_config() interface is not threadsafe. The application
must ensure that no other SQLite interfaces are invoked by other
threads while sqlite3\_config() is running.**


The first argument to sqlite3\_config() is an integer
[configuration option](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html) that determines
what property of SQLite is to be configured. Subsequent arguments
vary depending on the [configuration option](../c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html)
in the first argument.


For most configuration options, the sqlite3\_config() interface
may only be invoked prior to library initialization using
[sqlite3\_initialize()](../c3ref/initialize.html) or after shutdown by [sqlite3\_shutdown()](../c3ref/initialize.html).
The exceptional configuration options that may be invoked at any time
are called "anytime configuration options".
If sqlite3\_config() is called after [sqlite3\_initialize()](../c3ref/initialize.html) and before
[sqlite3\_shutdown()](../c3ref/initialize.html) with a first argument that is not an anytime
configuration option, then the sqlite3\_config() call will return SQLITE\_MISUSE.
Note, however, that sqlite3\_config() can be called as part of the
implementation of an application\-defined [sqlite3\_os\_init()](../c3ref/initialize.html).


When a configuration option is set, sqlite3\_config() returns [SQLITE\_OK](../rescode.html#ok).
If the option is unknown or SQLite is unable to set the option
then this routine returns a non\-zero [error code](../rescode.html).


See also lists of
 [Objects](../c3ref/objlist.html),
 [Constants](../c3ref/constlist.html), and
 [Functions](../c3ref/funclist.html).


