## SQLite Release 3\.8\.11\.1 On 2015\-07\-29

**Prior changes from version 3\.8\.11 (2015\-07\-27\):**


1. Added the experimental [RBU](../rbu.html) extension. Note that this extension is experimental
 and subject to change in incompatible ways.
- Added the experimental [FTS5](../fts5.html) extension. Note that this extension is experimental
 and subject to change in incompatible ways.
- Added the [sqlite3\_value\_dup()](../c3ref/value_dup.html) and [sqlite3\_value\_free()](../c3ref/value_dup.html) interfaces.
- Enhance the [spellfix1](../spellfix1.html) extension to support [ON CONFLICT](../lang_conflict.html) clauses.
- The [IS operator](../lang_expr.html#isisnot) is now able to drive indexes.
- Enhance the query planner to permit [automatic indexing](../optoverview.html#autoindex) on FROM\-clause
 subqueries that are implemented by co\-routine.
- Disallow the use of "rowid" in [common table expressions](../lang_with.html).
- Added the [PRAGMA cell\_size\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_cell_size_check) command for better and earlier
 detection of database file corruption.
- Added the [matchinfo 'b' flag](../fts3.html#matchinfo-b) to the [matchinfo()](../fts3.html#matchinfo) function in [FTS3](../fts3.html).
- Improved fuzz\-testing of database files, with fixes for problems found.
- Add the fuzzcheck test program and automatically run this program
 using both SQL and database test cases on "make test".
- Added the [SQLITE\_MUTEX\_STATIC\_VFS1](../c3ref/c_mutex_fast.html) static mutex and use it in the
 Windows [VFS](../vfs.html).
- The [sqlite3\_profile()](../c3ref/profile.html) callback is invoked (by [sqlite3\_reset()](../c3ref/reset.html) or
 [sqlite3\_finalize()](../c3ref/finalize.html)) for statements that did not run to completion.
- Enhance the page cache so that it can preallocate a block of memory to
 use for the initial set page cache lines. Set the default preallocation
 to 100 pages. Yields about a 5% performance increase on common workloads.
- Miscellaneous micro\-optimizations result in 22\.3% more work for the same
 number of CPU cycles relative to the previous release.
 SQLite now runs twice as fast as [version 3\.8\.0](../releaselog/3_8_0.html) and three times as
 fast as [version 3\.3\.9](../releaselog/3_3_9.html).
 (Measured using
 [cachegrind](http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/cg-manual.html) on the
 [speedtest1\.c](https://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact/83f6b3318f7ee) workload on
 Ubuntu 14\.04 x64 with gcc 4\.8\.2 and \-Os. Your performance may vary.)
- Added the [sqlite3\_result\_zeroblob64()](../c3ref/result_blob.html) and [sqlite3\_bind\_zeroblob64()](../c3ref/bind_blob.html)
 interfaces.
**Important bug fixes:**
- Fix [CREATE TABLE AS](../lang_createtable.html#createtabas) so that columns of type TEXT never end up
 holding an INT value. Ticket
 [f2ad7de056ab1dc9200](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/f2ad7de056ab1dc9200)- Fix [CREATE TABLE AS](../lang_createtable.html#createtabas) so that it does not leave NULL entries in the
 [sqlite\_master table](../schematab.html) if the SELECT statement on the right\-hand side
 aborts with an error. Ticket
 [873cae2b6e25b](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/873cae2b6e25b)- Fix the [skip\-scan optimization](../optoverview.html#skipscan) so that it works correctly when
 the [OR optimization](../optoverview.html#or_opt) is used on [WITHOUT ROWID](../withoutrowid.html) tables. Ticket
 [8fd39115d8f46](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/8fd39115d8f46)- Fix the [sqlite3\_memory\_used()](../c3ref/memory_highwater.html) and [sqlite3\_memory\_highwater()](../c3ref/memory_highwater.html) interfaces
 so that they actually do provide a 64\-bit answer.


**Changes in this specific patch release, version 3\.8\.11\.1 (2015\-07\-29\):**


1. Restore an undocumented side\-effect of [PRAGMA cache\_size](../pragma.html#pragma_cache_size): force
 the database schema to be parsed if the database has not been previously accessed.
- Fix a long\-standing problem in [sqlite3\_changes()](../c3ref/changes.html) for [WITHOUT ROWID](../withoutrowid.html)
 tables that was reported a few hours after the 3\.8\.11 release.
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2015\-07\-29 20:00:57 cf538e2783e468bbc25e7cb2a9ee64d3e0e80b2f"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: 3be71d99121fe5b17f057011025bcf84e7cc6c84



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).




