# 5\. The LIMIT clause


The LIMIT clause is used to place an upper bound on the number of rows
returned by the entire SELECT statement.



In a [compound SELECT](lang_select.html#compound), only the
last or right\-most [simple SELECT](lang_select.html#simpleselect) may contain a LIMIT clause. 
In a [compound SELECT](lang_select.html#compound), 
the LIMIT clause applies to the entire compound, not just the final SELECT.
If the right\-most [simple SELECT](lang_select.html#simpleselect) is a [VALUES clause](lang_select.html#values) then no LIMIT clause
is allowed.



Any scalar expression may be used in the 
LIMIT clause, so long as it evaluates to an integer or a value that can be
losslessly converted to an integer. If the expression evaluates to a NULL 
value or any other value that cannot be losslessly converted to an integer, an
error is returned. If the LIMIT expression evaluates to a negative value,
then there is no upper bound on the number of rows returned. Otherwise, the
SELECT returns the first N rows of its result set only, where N is the value
that the LIMIT expression evaluates to. Or, if the SELECT statement would
return less than N rows without a LIMIT clause, then the entire result set is
returned. 



The expression attached to the optional OFFSET clause that may follow a
LIMIT clause must also evaluate to an integer, or a value that can be
losslessly converted to an integer. If an expression has an OFFSET clause,
then the first M rows are omitted from the result set returned by the SELECT
statement and the next N rows are returned, where M and N are the values that
the OFFSET and LIMIT clauses evaluate to, respectively. Or, if the SELECT
would return less than M\+N rows if it did not have a LIMIT clause, then the
first M rows are skipped and the remaining rows (if any) are returned. If the
OFFSET clause evaluates to a negative value, the results are the same as if it
had evaluated to zero.



Instead of a separate OFFSET clause, the LIMIT clause may specify two
scalar expressions separated by a comma. In this case, the first expression
is used as the OFFSET expression and the second as the LIMIT expression.
This is counter\-intuitive, as when using the OFFSET clause the second of
the two expressions is the OFFSET and the first the LIMIT. 
This reversal of the offset and limit is intentional
\- it maximizes compatibility with other SQL database systems.
However, to avoid confusion, programmers are strongly encouraged to use
the form of the LIMIT clause that uses the "OFFSET" keyword and avoid
using a LIMIT clause with a comma\-separated offset.




