## 9\.3\. Precedence of comma\-joins and CROSS JOIN


In standard SQL, joins that use the JOIN keyword take higher precedence
than comma\-joins. That is to say, JOIN operators happen before comma operators.
This is not the case in SQLite, where all joins have the same precedence.



Consider this example:




> ```
> 
> ... FROM t1, t2 NATURAL FULL JOIN t3 ...
> 
> ```


In standard SQL, the FULL JOIN between t2 and t3 would occur first, and
then the result of the left join would be cross\-joined against t1\. But SQLite
always handles all joins from left to right. Thus, SQLite will do a cross
join on t1 and t2 first, then the result of that cross join will feed into the FULL JOIN
with t3\. Inner joins are inherently associative, so the difference is only
evident if your FROM clause contains one or more outer joins.



You can work around this, and make your SQL statements portable across all
systems, by observing the following stylistic rules:



* Do not mix comma\-joins with the JOIN keyword. It is fine to use comma\-joins,
but if you do, the you should use only comma\-joins for the entire FROM clause.
* Prefer LEFT JOIN over other outer join operators.
* When in doubt, use parentheses to specify the exact join order that you intend.


Any one of these suggestions is sufficient to avoid problems, and most
programmers instinctively follow all of these suggestions without having to
be told, and so the lack of precedence difference between comma\-joins and
the JOIN keyword in SQLite rarely comes up in practice. But you should be aware
of the problem, in case it ever does appear.



