# 2\. About Flexible Typing


Details regarding the flexible type system of SQLite are found
in the separate [Datatypes In SQLite](datatype3.html) document. Here is a quick
summary:



* Datatype names on column definitions are optional. A column definition
 can consist of just the column name and nothing else.
* When datatype names are provided, they can be just about any text.
 SQLite attempts to deduce the preferred datatype for the column based
 on the datatype name in the column definition, but that preferred
 datatype is advisory, not mandatory. The preferred datatype is
 known as the "column affinity".
* An attempt is made to transform incoming data into the preferred
 datatype of the column. (All SQL database engines do this, not
 just SQLite.) If this transformation is successful, all is well.
 But if unsuccessful, instead of raising an error, SQLite just stores
 the content using its original datatype.
* The above can lead to situations that advocates of rigid typing
 find incommodious:
 



| Column Datatype | Types Allowed In That Column |
| --- | --- |
| INTEGER | INTEGER, REAL, TEXT, BLOB |
| REAL | REAL, TEXT, BLOB |
| TEXT | TEXT, BLOB |
| BLOB | INTEGER, REAL, TEXT, BLOB |
* Note that an INTEGER or REAL value will never end up being stored
 in a TEXT column, since an INTEGER or REAL value can and always will
 be converted into its equivalent TEXT representation. Similarly,
 an INTEGER will never be stored in a REAL column because it will
 always be converted into a REAL. But TEXT does not always look like
 an INTEGER or REAL value and so cannot always be converted. And a
 BLOB cannot be converted into anything and nothing else can be
 converted into a BLOB.


