# 3\. Details


 The default implementation stores all statistics in a single
table named "[sqlite\_stat1](fileformat2.html#stat1tab)". 
 If SQLite is compiled with the
[SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT4](compile.html#enable_stat4) option, then additional histogram data is
collected and stored in [sqlite\_stat4](fileformat2.html#stat4tab).
Older versions of SQLite would make use of the [sqlite\_stat2](fileformat2.html#stat2tab) table
or [sqlite\_stat3](fileformat2.html#stat3tab) table
when compiled with [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT2](compile.html#enable_stat2) or [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](compile.html#enable_stat3),
but all recent versions of
SQLite ignore the sqlite\_stat2 and sqlite\_stat3 tables.
Future enhancements may create
additional [internal tables](fileformat2.html#intschema) with the same name pattern except with
final digit larger than "4".
All of these tables are collectively referred to as "statistics tables".



 The content of the statistics tables can be queried using [SELECT](lang_select.html)
and can be changed using the [DELETE](lang_delete.html), [INSERT](lang_insert.html), and [UPDATE](lang_update.html) commands.
The [DROP TABLE](lang_droptable.html) command works on statistics tables
as of SQLite version 3\.7\.9\. (2011\-11\-01\)
The [ALTER TABLE](lang_altertable.html) command does not work on statistics tables.
Appropriate care should be used when changing the content of the statistics
tables as invalid content can cause SQLite to select inefficient
query plans. Generally speaking, one should not modify the content of
the statistics tables by any mechanism other than invoking the
ANALYZE command. 
See "[Manual Control Of Query Plans Using SQLITE\_STAT Tables](optoverview.html#manctrl)" for
further information.


 Statistics gathered by ANALYZE are not updated as
the content of the database changes. If the content of the database
changes significantly, or if the database schema changes, then one should
consider rerunning the ANALYZE command in order to update the statistics.


 The query planner loads the content of the statistics tables
into memory when the schema is read. Hence, when an application
changes the statistics tables directly, SQLite will not immediately
notice the changes. An application
can force the query planner to reread the statistics tables by running
**ANALYZE sqlite\_schema**. 



