## Name Of The Folder Holding Database Files




> ```
> 
> SQLITE_EXTERN char *sqlite3_data_directory;
> 
> ```



If this global variable is made to point to a string which is
the name of a folder (a.k.a. directory), then all database files
specified with a relative pathname and created or accessed by
SQLite when using a built\-in windows [VFS](../c3ref/vfs.html) will be assumed
to be relative to that directory. If this variable is a NULL
pointer, then SQLite assumes that all database files specified
with a relative pathname are relative to the current directory
for the process. Only the windows VFS makes use of this global
variable; it is ignored by the unix VFS.


Changing the value of this variable while a database connection is
open can result in a corrupt database.


It is not safe to read or modify this variable in more than one
thread at a time. It is not safe to read or modify this variable
if a [database connection](../c3ref/sqlite3.html) is being used at the same time in a separate
thread.
It is intended that this variable be set once
as part of process initialization and before any SQLite interface
routines have been called and that this variable remain unchanged
thereafter.


The [data\_store\_directory pragma](../pragma.html#pragma_data_store_directory) may modify this variable and cause
it to point to memory obtained from [sqlite3\_malloc](../c3ref/free.html). Furthermore,
the [data\_store\_directory pragma](../pragma.html#pragma_data_store_directory) always assumes that any string
that this variable points to is held in memory obtained from
[sqlite3\_malloc](../c3ref/free.html) and the pragma may attempt to free that memory
using [sqlite3\_free](../c3ref/free.html).
Hence, if this variable is modified directly, either it should be
made NULL or made to point to memory obtained from [sqlite3\_malloc](../c3ref/free.html)
or else the use of the [data\_store\_directory pragma](../pragma.html#pragma_data_store_directory) should be avoided.


See also lists of
 [Objects](../c3ref/objlist.html),
 [Constants](../c3ref/constlist.html), and
 [Functions](../c3ref/funclist.html).


