## SQLite Release 3\.18\.2 On 2017\-06\-17

**Prior changes from version 3\.18\.0 (2017\-03\-30\):**


1. Added the [PRAGMA optimize](../pragma.html#pragma_optimize) command
- The SQLite version identifier returned by the [sqlite\_source\_id()](../lang_corefunc.html#sqlite_source_id) SQL function
 and the [sqlite3\_sourceid()](../c3ref/libversion.html) C API and found in the [SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID](../c3ref/c_source_id.html) macro is
 now a 64\-digit SHA3\-256 hash instead of a 40\-digit SHA1 hash.
- Added the [json\_patch()](../json1.html#jpatch) SQL function to the [JSON1 extension](../json1.html).
- Enhance the [LIKE optimization](../optoverview.html#like_opt) so that it works for arbitrary expressions on
 the left\-hand side as long as the LIKE pattern on the right\-hand side does not
 begin with a digit or minus sign.
- Added the [sqlite3\_set\_last\_insert\_rowid()](../c3ref/set_last_insert_rowid.html) interface and use the new interface in
 the [FTS3](../fts3.html), [FTS4](../fts3.html#fts4), and [FTS5](../fts5.html) extensions to ensure that the [sqlite3\_last\_insert\_rowid()](../c3ref/last_insert_rowid.html)
 interface always returns reasonable values.
- Enhance [PRAGMA integrity\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_integrity_check) and [PRAGMA quick\_check](../pragma.html#pragma_quick_check) so that they verify
 [CHECK constraints](../lang_createtable.html#ckconst).
- Enhance the query plans for joins to detect empty tables early and
 halt without doing unnecessary work.
- Enhance the [sqlite3\_mprintf()](../c3ref/mprintf.html) family of interfaces and the [printf SQL function](../lang_corefunc.html#printf)
 to put comma separators at the thousands marks for integers, if the "," format modifier
 is used in between the "%" and the "d" (example: "%,d").
- Added the \-D[SQLITE\_MAX\_MEMORY](../compile.html#max_memory)\=*N* compile\-time option.
- Added the [.sha3sum dot\-command](../cli.html#sha3sum) and the [.selftest dot\-command](../cli.html#selftest)
 to the [command\-line shell](../cli.html)- Begin enforcing [SQLITE\_LIMIT\_VDBE\_OP](../c3ref/c_limit_attached.html#sqlitelimitvdbeop). This can be used, for example, to prevent
 excessively large prepared statements in systems that accept SQL queries from
 untrusted users.
- Various performance improvements.
**Bug Fixes:**
- Ensure that indexed expressions with collating sequences are handled correctly.
 Fix for ticket [eb703ba7b50c1a5](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/eb703ba7b50c1a5).
- Fix a bug in the 'start of ...' modifiers for the [date and time functions](../lang_datefunc.html).
 Ticket [6097cb92745327a1](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/6097cb92745327a1)- Fix a potential segfault in complex recursive triggers, resulting from a
 bug in the OP\_Once opcode introduced as part of a performance optimization in
 version 3\.15\.0\.
 Ticket [06796225f59c057c](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/06796225f59c057c)- In the [RBU extension](../rbu.html), add extra sync operations to avoid the possibility of
 corruption following a power failure.
- The [sqlite3\_trace\_v2()](../c3ref/trace_v2.html) output for nested SQL statements should always begin
 with a "\-\-" comment marker.


**Prior changes from version 3\.18\.1 (2017\-06\-16\):**


1. Fix a bug associated with [auto\_vacuum](../pragma.html#pragma_auto_vacuum) that can lead to database
 corruption. The bug was introduced in [version 3\.16\.0](../releaselog/3_16_0.html) (2017\-01\-02\).
 Ticket [fda22108](https://sqlite.org/src/info/fda22108).


**Changes in this specific patch release, version 3\.18\.2 (2017\-06\-17\):**


1. Fix a bug that might cause duplicate output rows when an IN operator is
 used in the WHERE clause.
 Ticket [61fe9745](https://sqlite.org/src/info/61fe9745).
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2017\-06\-17 09:59:36 036ebf729e4b21035d7f4f8e35a6f705e6bf99887889e2dc14ebf2242e7930dd"
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: b0bd014f2776b9f9508a3fc6432f70e2436bf54475369f88f0aeef75b0eec93e



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).






