## SQLite Release 3\.36\.0 On 2021\-06\-18

1. Improvement to the [EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN](../eqp.html) output to make it easier to
 understand.
- Byte\-order marks at the start of a token are skipped as if they
 were whitespace.
- An error is raised on any attempt to access the [rowid](../lang_createtable.html#rowid) of a VIEW or subquery.
 Formerly, the rowid of a VIEW would be indeterminate and often would be NULL.
 The \-DSQLITE\_ALLOW\_ROWID\_IN\_VIEW compile\-time option is available to restore
 the legacy behavior for applications that need it.
- The [sqlite3\_deserialize()](../c3ref/deserialize.html) and [sqlite3\_serialize()](../c3ref/serialize.html) interfaces are now
 enabled by default. The \-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_DESERIALIZE compile\-time option is
 no longer required. Instead, there is a new [\-DSQLITE\_OMIT\_DESERIALIZE](../compile.html#omit_deserialize)
 compile\-time option to omit those interfaces.
- The "memdb" VFS now allows the same in\-memory database to be shared among
 multiple database connections in the same process as long as the
 database name begins with "/".
- Back out the EXISTS\-to\-IN optimization (item 8b in the
 [SQLite 3\.35\.0 change log](../releaselog/3_35_0.html))
 as it was found to slow down queries more often than speed them up.
- Improve the [constant\-propagation optimization](../optoverview.html#constprop) so that it works on
 non\-join queries.
- The [REGEXP extension](https://sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/regexp.c) is
 now included in [CLI](../cli.html) builds.

**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2021\-06\-18 18:36:39 5c9a6c06871cb9fe42814af9c039eb6da5427a6ec28f187af7ebfb62eafa66e5
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: 2a8e87aaa414ac2d45ace8eb74e710935423607a8de0fafcb36bbde5b952d157



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).


