# 12\. Compiler Linkage and Calling Convention Control


The following macros specify interface details
for certain kinds of SQLite builds. The Makefiles will normally
handle setting these macros automatically. Application developers should
not need to worry with these macros. The following documentation about these
macros is included for completeness.



**SQLITE\_API**


> This macro identifies an externally visible interface for SQLite.
>  This macro is sometimes set to "extern". But the definition is
>  compiler\-specific.


**SQLITE\_APICALL**


> This macro identifies the calling convention used by public interface
>  routines in SQLite which accept a fixed number of arguments.
>  This macro is normally defined to be nothing,
>  though on Windows builds it can sometimes be set to "\_\_cdecl" or "\_\_stdcall".
>  The "\_\_cdecl" setting is the default, but "\_\_stdcall" is used when SQLite
>  is intended to be compiled as a Windows system library.
>  
>  A single function declaration should contain no more than one of
>  the following: [SQLITE\_APICALL](compile.html#apicall), [SQLITE\_CDECL](compile.html#cdecl), or [SQLITE\_SYSAPI](compile.html#sysapi).


**SQLITE\_CALLBACK**


> This macro specifies the calling convention used with callback pointers
>  in SQLite. This macro is normally defined to be nothing, though on Windows
>  builds it can sometimes be set to "\_\_cdecl" or "\_\_stdcall". The
>  "\_\_cdecl" setting is the default, but "\_\_stdcall" is used when SQLite
>  is intended to be compiled as a Windows system library.


**SQLITE\_CDECL**


> This macro specifies the calling convention used by varargs interface
>  routines in SQLite. This macro is normally defined to be nothing,
>  though on Windows builds it can sometimes be set to "\_\_cdecl". This
>  macro is used on varargs routines and so cannot be set to "\_\_stdcall"
>  since the \_\_stdcall calling convention does not support varargs functions.
>  
>  A single function declaration should contain no more than one of
>  the following: [SQLITE\_APICALL](compile.html#apicall), [SQLITE\_CDECL](compile.html#cdecl), or [SQLITE\_SYSAPI](compile.html#sysapi).


**SQLITE\_EXTERN**


> This macro specifies linkage for public interface variables in SQLite.
>  It should normally be allowed to default to "extern".


**SQLITE\_STDCALL**


> This macro is no longer used and is now deprecated.


**SQLITE\_SYSAPI**


> This macro identifies the calling convention used by operating system
>  interfaces for the target platform for an SQLite build.
>  This macro is normally defined to be nothing,
>  though on Windows builds it can sometimes be set to "\_\_stdcall".
>  
>  A single function declaration should contain no more than one of
>  the following: [SQLITE\_APICALL](compile.html#apicall), [SQLITE\_CDECL](compile.html#cdecl), or [SQLITE\_SYSAPI](compile.html#sysapi).


**SQLITE\_TCLAPI**


> This macro specifies the calling convention used by the
>  [TCL](http://www.tcl.tk) library interface routines.
>  This macro is not used by the SQLite core, but only by the [TCL Interface](tclsqlite.html)
>  and [TCL test suite](testing.html#tcl).
>  This macro is normally defined to be nothing,
>  though on Windows builds it can sometimes be set to "\_\_cdecl". This
>  macro is used on TCL library interface routines which are always compiled
>  as \_\_cdecl, even on platforms that prefer to use \_\_stdcall, so this
>  macro should not be set to \_\_stdcall unless the platform has a custom
>  TCL library build that supports \_\_stdcall.
>  
>  This macro may not be used in combination with any of [SQLITE\_APICALL](compile.html#apicall),
>  [SQLITE\_CALLBACK](compile.html#callback), [SQLITE\_CDECL](compile.html#cdecl) or [SQLITE\_SYSAPI](compile.html#sysapi).


*This page last modified on [2024\-05\-09 08:10:19](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


