# 7\.  Options To Enable Features Normally Turned Off



**SQLITE\_ALLOW\_URI\_AUTHORITY**


> [URI filenames](uri.html) normally throws an error if the authority section is
>  not either empty or "localhost". However, if SQLite is compiled with
>  the SQLITE\_ALLOW\_URI\_AUTHORITY compile\-time option, then the URI is
>  converted into a Uniform Naming Convention (UNC) filename and passed
>  down to the underlying operating system that way.
>  
>  Some future versions of SQLite may change to enable this feature
>  by default.


**SQLITE\_ALLOW\_COVERING\_INDEX\_SCAN\=*\<0 or 1\>***


> This C\-preprocess macro determines the default setting of the
>  [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_COVERING\_INDEX\_SCAN](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigcoveringindexscan) configuration setting. It defaults
>  to 1 (on) which means that covering indices are used for full table
>  scans where possible, in order to reduce I/O and improve performance.
>  However, the use of a covering index for a full scan will cause results
>  to appear in a different order from legacy, which could cause some
>  (incorrectly\-coded) legacy applications to break. Hence, the covering
>  index scan option can be disabled at compile\-time on systems that what
>  to minimize their risk of exposing errors in legacy applications.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_8\_3\_NAMES\=*\<1 or 2\>***


> If this C\-preprocessor macro is defined, then extra code is
>  included that allows SQLite to function on a filesystem that
>  only support 8\+3 filenames. If the value of this macro is 1,
>  then the default behavior is to continue to use long filenames and
>  to only use 8\+3 filenames if the
>  database connection is opened using [URI filenames](uri.html) with
>  the "8\_3\_names\=1" query parameter. If the value of
>  this macro is 2, then the use of 8\+3 filenames becomes the default
>  but may be disabled on using the 8\_3\_names\=0 query parameter.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR**


> When defined, this C\-preprocessor macro activates extra code that
>  attempts to detect misuse of the SQLite API, such as passing in NULL
>  pointers to required parameters or using objects after they have been
>  destroyed. When this option is enabled and an illegal API usage
>  is detected, the interface will typically return SQLITE\_MISUSE.
>  
>  The SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR option does not guarantee that all
>  illegal API usages will be detected. Even when
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR is enabled, passing incorrect values
>  into the C\-language APIs can cause a process crash due to segmentation
>  fault or null\-pointer deference or other reasons. The
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR compile\-time option is intended as an aid
>  for application testing and debugging option. Applications
>  should not depend SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR for safety.
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_API\_ARMOR is appropriate as a second line of
>  defense against application bugs, but it should not be the only
>  defense. If any SQLite interface returns SQLITE\_MISUSE, that
>  indicates that the application is using SQLite contrary to
>  the spec and that the application contains a bug. The SQLITE\_MISUSE
>  return provides the application with the opportunity to respond
>  gracefully to that bug, rather than simply crashing the process or
>  invoking undefined behavior, but nothing more. Applications should
>  neither make use of nor depend upon SQLITE\_MISUSE for routine processing.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_ATOMIC\_WRITE**


> If this C\-preprocessor macro is defined and if the
>  xDeviceCharacteristics method of [sqlite3\_io\_methods](c3ref/io_methods.html) object for
>  a database file reports (via one of the [SQLITE\_IOCAP\_ATOMIC](c3ref/c_iocap_atomic.html) bits)
>  that the filesystem supports atomic writes and if a transaction
>  involves a change to only a single page of the database file,
>  then the transaction commits with just a single write request of
>  a single page of the database and no rollback journal is created
>  or written. On filesystems that support atomic writes, this
>  optimization can result in significant speed improvements for
>  small updates. However, few filesystems support this capability
>  and the code paths that check for this capability slow down write
>  performance on systems that lack atomic write capability, so this
>  feature is disabled by default.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_BATCH\_ATOMIC\_WRITE**


> This compile\-time option enables SQLite to take advantage batch
>  atomic write capabilities in the underlying filesystem. As of
>  SQLite version 3\.21\.0 (2017\-10\-24\) this is only supported on
>  [F2FS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/F2FS). However, the interface
>  is implemented generically, using [sqlite3\_file\_control()](c3ref/file_control.html) with
>  [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_BEGIN\_ATOMIC\_WRITE](c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntlbeginatomicwrite) and [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_COMMIT\_ATOMIC\_WRITE](c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntlcommitatomicwrite)
>  so the capability can be added to other filesystem times in the
>  future. When this option is enabled, SQLite automatically detects
>  that the underlying filesystem supports batch atomic writes, and
>  when it does so it avoids writing the [rollback journal](lockingv3.html#rollback) for transaction
>  control. This can make transactions over twice as fast, while
>  simultaneously reducing wear on SSD storage devices.
> 
>  Future versions of SQLite might enable the batch\-atomic\-write
>  capability by default, at which point this compile\-time option
>  will become superfluous.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_BYTECODE\_VTAB**


> This option enables the [bytecode and tables\_used virtual tables](bytecodevtab.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_COLUMN\_METADATA**


> When this C\-preprocessor macro is defined, SQLite includes some
>  additional APIs that provide convenient access to meta\-data about
>  tables and queries. The APIs that are enabled by this option are:
> 
> 
>  * [sqlite3\_column\_database\_name()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)
> * [sqlite3\_column\_database\_name16()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)
> * [sqlite3\_column\_table\_name()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)
> * [sqlite3\_column\_table\_name16()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)
> * [sqlite3\_column\_origin\_name()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)
> * [sqlite3\_column\_origin\_name16()](c3ref/column_database_name.html)


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_DBPAGE\_VTAB**


> This option enables the [SQLITE\_DBPAGE virtual table](dbpage.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_DBSTAT\_VTAB**


> This option enables the [dbstat virtual table](dbstat.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_DESERIALIZE**


> This option was formerly used to enable
>  the [sqlite3\_serialize()](c3ref/serialize.html) and [sqlite3\_deserialize()](c3ref/deserialize.html)
>  interfaces. However, as of SQLite 3\.36\.0 (2021\-06\-18\)
>  those interfaces are enabled by default and a new
>  compile\-time option [SQLITE\_OMIT\_DESERIALIZE](compile.html#omit_deserialize) is added
>  to omit them.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_EXPLAIN\_COMMENTS**


> This option adds extra logic to SQLite that inserts comment text into the
>  output of [EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html). These extra comments use extra memory, thus
>  making [prepared statements](c3ref/stmt.html) larger and very slightly slower, and so they are
>  turned off by default and in most application. But some applications, such
>  as the [command\-line shell](cli.html) for SQLite, value clarity of EXPLAIN output
>  over raw performance and so this compile\-time option is available to them.
>  The SQLITE\_ENABLE\_EXPLAIN\_COMMENTS compile\-time option is also enabled
>  automatically if [SQLITE\_DEBUG](compile.html#debug) is enabled.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3**


> When this option is defined in the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html), versions 3 and 4
>  of the full\-text search engine are added to the build automatically.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_PARENTHESIS**


> This option modifies the query pattern parser in FTS3 such that it
>  supports operators AND and NOT (in addition to the usual OR and NEAR)
>  and also allows query expressions to contain nested parenthesis.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_TOKENIZER**


> This option enables the two\-argument version of the [fts3\_tokenizer()](fts3.html#f3tknzr)
>  interface. The second argument to fts3\_tokenizer() is suppose to be a
>  pointer to a function (encoded as a BLOB) that implements an
>  application defined tokenizer. If hostile actors are able to run
>  the two\-argument version of fts3\_tokenizer() with an arbitrary second
>  argument, they could use crash or take control of the process.
>  
>  Because of security concerns, the two\-argument fts3\_tokenizer() feature
>  was disabled beginning with [Version 3\.11\.0](releaselog/3_11_0.html) (2016\-02\-15\)
>  unless this compile\-time option is used.
>  [Version 3\.12\.0](releaselog/3_12_0.html) (2016\-03\-29\) added the
>  [sqlite3\_db\_config](c3ref/db_config.html)(db,[SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_TOKENIZER](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigenablefts3tokenizer),1,0\) interface
>  that activates the two\-argument version of [fts3\_tokenizer()](fts3.html#f3tknzr)
>  for a specific [database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html) at run\-time.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS4**


> When this option is defined in the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html), versions 3 and 4
>  of the full\-text search engine are added to the build automatically.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS5**


> When this option is defined in the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html), versions 5
>  of the full\-text search engine ([fts5](fts5.html)) is added to the build automatically.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_GEOPOLY**


> When this option is defined in the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html), the [Geopoly extension](geopoly.html)
>  is included in the build.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_HIDDEN\_COLUMNS**


> When this option is defined in the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html),
>  The [hidden columns](vtab.html#hiddencol) feature is enabled for virtual tables.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_ICU**


> This option causes the
>  [International Components for Unicode](https://icu.unicode.org)
>  or "ICU" extension to SQLite to be added to the build.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_IOTRACE**


> When both the SQLite core and the [Command Line Interface](cli.html) (CLI) are both
>  compiled with this option, then the CLI provides an extra command
>  named ".iotrace" that provides a low\-level log of I/O activity.
>  This option is experimental and may be discontinued in a future release.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MATH\_FUNCTIONS**


> This macro enables the [built\-in SQL math functions](lang_mathfunc.html). This option
>  is automatically added to the Makefile by the configure script on unix platforms,
>  unless the \-\-disable\-math option is used.
>  This option is also included on Windows builds using the
>  "Makefile.msc" makefile for nmake.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_JSON1**


> This compile\-time option is a no\-op. Prior to SQLite version 3\.38\.0
>  (2022\-02\-22\), it was necessary to compile with this option in order
>  to include the [JSON SQL functions](json1.html) in the build. However, beginning
>  with SQLite version 3\.38\.0, those functions are included by default.
>  Use the [\-DSQLITE\_OMIT\_JSON](compile.html#omit_json) option to omit them.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_LOCKING\_STYLE**


> This option enables additional logic in the OS interface layer for
>  Mac OS X. The additional logic attempts to determine the type of the
>  underlying filesystem and choose and alternative locking strategy
>  that works correctly for that filesystem type. Five locking strategies
>  are available:
> 
> 
>  * POSIX locking style. This is the default locking style and the
>  style used by other (non Mac OS X) Unixes. Locks are obtained and
>  released using the fcntl() system call.
> 
> 
> 
>  - AFP locking style. This locking style is used for network file
>  systems that use the AFP (Apple Filing Protocol) protocol. Locks
>  are obtained by calling the library function \_AFPFSSetLock().
> 
> 
> 
>  - Flock locking style. This is used for file\-systems that do not
>  support POSIX locking style. Locks are obtained and released using
>  the flock() system call.
> 
> 
> 
>  - Dot\-file locking style. This locking style is used when neither
>  flock nor POSIX locking styles are supported by the file system.
>  Database locks are obtained by creating and entry in the file\-system
>  at a well\-known location relative to the database file (a "dot\-file")
>  and relinquished by deleting the same file.
> 
> 
> 
>  - No locking style. If none of the above can be supported, this
>  locking style is used. No database locking mechanism is used. When
>  this system is used it is not safe for a single database to be
>  accessed by multiple clients.
> 
> 
> 
>  Additionally, five extra [VFS](vfs.html) implementations are provided as well as the
>  default. By specifying one of the extra VFS implementations
>  when calling [sqlite3\_open\_v2()](c3ref/open.html), an application may bypass the file\-system
>  detection logic and explicitly select one of the above locking styles. The
>  five extra [VFS](vfs.html) implementations are called "unix\-posix", "unix\-afp",
>  "unix\-flock", "unix\-dotfile" and "unix\-none".


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMORY\_MANAGEMENT**


> This option adds extra logic to SQLite that allows it to release unused
>  memory upon request. This option must be enabled in order for the
>  [sqlite3\_release\_memory()](c3ref/release_memory.html) interface to work. If this compile\-time
>  option is not used, the [sqlite3\_release\_memory()](c3ref/release_memory.html) interface is a
>  no\-op.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMSYS3**


> This option includes code in SQLite that implements an alternative
>  memory allocator. This alternative memory allocator is only engaged
>  when the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_HEAP](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigheap) option to [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html) is used to
>  supply a large chunk of memory from which all memory allocations are
>  taken.
>  The MEMSYS3 memory allocator uses a hybrid allocation algorithm
>  patterned after dlmalloc(). Only one of SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMSYS3 and
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMSYS5 may be enabled at once.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_MEMSYS5**


> This option includes code in SQLite that implements an alternative
>  memory allocator. This alternative memory allocator is only engaged
>  when the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_HEAP](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigheap) option to [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html) is used to
>  supply a large chunk of memory from which all memory allocations are
>  taken.
>  The MEMSYS5 module rounds all allocations up to the next power
>  of two and uses a first\-fit, buddy\-allocator algorithm
>  that provides strong guarantees against fragmentation and breakdown
>  subject to certain operating constraints.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_NORMALIZE**


> This option includes the [sqlite3\_normalized\_sql()](c3ref/expanded_sql.html) API.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_NULL\_TRIM**


> This option enables an optimization that omits NULL columns at
>  the ends of rows, for a space savings on disk.
>  
>  Databases generated with this option enabled are not readable
>  by SQLite version 3\.1\.6 (2005\-03\-17\) and earlier. Also,
>  databases generated with this option enabled are prone to
>  triggering the
>  [e6e962d6b0f06f46](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/e6e962d6b0f06f46e)
>  bug in the [sqlite3\_blob\_reopen()](c3ref/blob_reopen.html) interface. For those reasons,
>  this optimization is disabled by default. However, this optimization
>  may be enabled by default in a future release of SQLite.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_OFFSET\_SQL\_FUNC**


> This option enables support for the [sqlite\_offset(X)](lang_corefunc.html#sqlite_offset) SQL function.
>  
>  The [sqlite\_offset(X)](lang_corefunc.html#sqlite_offset) SQL function requires a new interface on the
>  B\-tree storage engine, a new opcode in the [virtual machine](opcode.html) that
>  runs SQL statements, and a new conditional in a critical path of the
>  code generator. To avoid that overhead in applications that do not
>  need the utility of sqlite\_offset(X), the function is disabled by
>  default.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_PREUPDATE\_HOOK**


> This option enables
>  [several new APIs](c3ref/preupdate_blobwrite.html) that provide callbacks
>  prior to any change to a [rowid table](rowidtable.html). The callbacks can be used
>  to record the state of the row before the change occurs.
>  The action of the preupdate hook is similar to the
>  [update hook](c3ref/update_hook.html) except that the callback is
>  invoked before the change, not afterwards, and the preupdate
>  hook interfaces are omitted unless this compile\-time option is
>  used.
>  The preupdate hook interfaces were originally added to
>  support the [session](sessionintro.html) extension.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_QPSG**


> This option causes the [query planner stability guarantee](queryplanner-ng.html#qpstab) (QPSG) to
>  be on by default. Normally the QPSG is off and must be activated
>  at run\-time using the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_ENABLE\_QPSG](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfigenableqpsg) option to the
>  [sqlite3\_db\_config()](c3ref/db_config.html) interface.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_RBU**


> Enable the code the implements the [RBU extension](rbu.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_RTREE**


> This option causes SQLite to include support for the
>  [R\*Tree index extension](rtree.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SESSION**


> This option enables the [session extension](sessionintro.html).


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SNAPSHOT**


> This option enables the code to support the [sqlite3\_snapshot](c3ref/snapshot.html) object
>  and its related interfaces:
>  * [sqlite3\_snapshot\_get()](c3ref/snapshot_get.html) (constructor)
>  * [sqlite3\_snapshot\_free()](c3ref/snapshot_free.html) (destructor)
>  * [sqlite3\_snapshot\_open()](c3ref/snapshot_open.html)* [sqlite3\_snapshot\_cmp()](c3ref/snapshot_cmp.html)* [sqlite3\_snapshot\_recover()](c3ref/snapshot_recover.html)


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SORTER\_REFERENCES**


> This option activates an optimization that reduces the memory required
>  by the sorter at the cost of doing additional B\-tree lookups after
>  the sort has occurred.
>  
>  The default sorting procedure is to gather all information that will
>  ultimately be output into a "record" and pass that complete record
>  to the sorter. But in some cases, for example if some of the output
>  columns consists of large BLOB values, the size of the each record
>  can be large, which means that the sorter has to either use more memory,
>  and/or write more content to temporary storage.
>  
>  When SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SORTER\_REFERENCES is enabled, the records passed to
>  the sorter often contain only a [ROWID](lang_createtable.html#rowid) value. Such records are much
>  smaller. This means the sorter has much less "payload" to deal with and
>  can run faster. After sorting has occurred, the ROWID is used to look up
>  the output column values in the original table. That requires another
>  search into the table, and could potentially result in a slowdown. Or,
>  it might be a performance win, depending on how large the values are.
>  
>  Even when the SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SORTER\_REFERENCES compile\-time option is on,
>  sorter references are still disabled by default. To use sorter references,
>  the application must set a sorter reference size threshold using the
>  [sqlite3\_config](c3ref/config.html)([SQLITE\_CONFIG\_SORTERREF\_SIZE](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigsorterrefsize)) interface at start\-time.
>  
>  Because the SQLite developers do not know whether the
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SORTER\_REFERENCES option will help or hurt performance,
>  it is disabled by default at this time (2018\-05\-04\). It might be enabled
>  by default in some future release, depending on what is learned about its
>  impact on performance.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STMT\_SCANSTATUS**


> This option enables the [sqlite3\_stmt\_scanstatus()](c3ref/stmt_scanstatus.html) and
>  [sqlite3\_stmt\_scanstatus\_v2()](c3ref/stmt_scanstatus.html) interfaces. Those
>  interfaces are normally omitted from the build
>  because they imposes a performance penalty, even on statements that
>  do not use the feature.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STMTVTAB**


> This compile\-time option enables the [SQLITE\_STMT virtual table](stmt.html) logic.


**SQLITE\_RTREE\_INT\_ONLY**


> This compile\-time option is deprecated and untested.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SQLLOG**


> This option enables extra code (especially the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_SQLLOG](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigsqllog)
>  option to [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html)) that can be used to create logs of all
>  SQLite processing performed by an application. These logs can be useful
>  in doing off\-line analysis of the behavior of an application, and especially
>  for performance analysis. In order for the SQLITE\_ENABLE\_SQLLOG option to
>  be useful, some extra code is required. The
>  ["test\_sqllog.c"](https://www.sqlite.org/src/doc/trunk/src/test_sqllog.c)
>  source code
>  file in the SQLite source tree is a working example of the required extra
>  code. On unix and windows systems, a developer can append the text of the
>  "test\_sqllog.c" source code file to the end of an "sqlite3\.c" amalgamation,
>  recompile the application using the \-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_SQLLOG option, then
>  control logging using environment variables. See the header comment on
>  the "test\_sqllog.c" source file for additional detail.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT2**


> This option used to cause the [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command to collect
>  index histogram data in the **sqlite\_stat2** table. But that
>  functionality was superseded by [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](compile.html#enable_stat3) as of
>  SQLite [version 3\.7\.9](releaselog/3_7_9.html) (2011\-11\-01\).
>  The SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT2 compile\-time option
>  is now a no\-op.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3**


> This option used to cause the [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command to collect
>  index histogram data in the **sqlite\_stat3** table. But that
>  functionality was superseded by [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT4](compile.html#enable_stat4) as of
>  SQLite [version 3\.8\.1](releaselog/3_8_1.html) (2013\-10\-17\).
>  The SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3 compile\-time option
>  continued to be supported through [version 3\.29\.0](releaselog/3_29_0.html) (2019\-07\-10\)
>  but has now become a no\-op.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT4**


> This option adds additional logic to the [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command and to
>  the [query planner](optoverview.html) that can help SQLite to chose a better query plan
>  under certain situations. The [ANALYZE](lang_analyze.html) command is enhanced to collect
>  histogram data from all columns of every index and store that data
>  in the [sqlite\_stat4](fileformat2.html#stat4tab) table. The query planner will then use the
>  histogram data to help it make better index choices. The downside of
>  this compile\-time option is that it violates the
>  [query planner stability guarantee](queryplanner-ng.html#qpstab) making it more difficult to ensure
>  consistent performance in mass\-produced applications.
>  
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT4 is an enhancement of [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](compile.html#enable_stat3). STAT3
>  only recorded histogram data for the left\-most column of each index
>  whereas the STAT4 enhancement records histogram data from all columns
>  of each index.
>  The [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_STAT3](compile.html#enable_stat3) compile\-time option has become a no\-op.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_TREE\_EXPLAIN**


> This compile\-time option is no longer used.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UPDATE\_DELETE\_LIMIT**


> This option enables an optional ORDER BY and LIMIT clause on
>  [UPDATE](lang_update.html) and [DELETE](lang_delete.html) statements.
> 
> 
>  If this option is defined, then it must also be
>  defined when using the [Lemon parser generator](lemon.html) tool to generate a parse.c
>  file. Because of this, this option may only be used when the library is built
>  from source, not from the [amalgamation](amalgamation.html) or from the collection of
>  pre\-packaged C files provided for non\-Unix like platforms on the website.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UNKNOWN\_SQL\_FUNCTION**


> When the SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UNKNOWN\_SQL\_FUNCTION compile\-time option is
>  activated, SQLite will suppress "unknown function" errors when running
>  an [EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html) or [EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN](eqp.html). Instead of throwing an error,
>  SQLite will insert a substitute no\-op function named "unknown()".
>  The substitution of "unknown()" in place of unrecognized functions
>  only occurs on [EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html) and [EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN](eqp.html), not on ordinary
>  statements.
>  
>  When used in the [command\-line shell](cli.html), the
>  SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UNKNOWN\_SQL\_FUNCTION feature allows SQL text that contains
>  application\-defined functions to be pasted into the shell for
>  analysis and debugging without having to create and load an
>  extension that implements the application\-defined functions.


**SQLITE\_ENABLE\_UNLOCK\_NOTIFY**


> This option enables the [sqlite3\_unlock\_notify()](c3ref/unlock_notify.html) interface and
>  its associated functionality. See the documentation titled
>  [Using the SQLite Unlock Notification Feature](unlock_notify.html) for additional
>  information.


**SQLITE\_INTROSPECTION\_PRAGMAS**


> This option is obsolete. It used to enable some extra
>  some extra PRAGMA statements such as
>  [PRAGMA function\_list](pragma.html#pragma_function_list), [PRAGMA module\_list](pragma.html#pragma_module_list), and
>  [PRAGMA pragma\_list](pragma.html#pragma_pragma_list), but those pragmas are now all
>  enabled by default. See [SQLITE\_OMIT\_INTROSPECTION\_PRAGMAS](compile.html#omit_introspection_pragmas).


**SQLITE\_SOUNDEX**


> This option enables the [soundex() SQL function](lang_corefunc.html#soundex).


**SQLITE\_STRICT\_SUBTYPE\=1**


> This option causes [application\-defined SQL functions](appfunc.html) to raise an SQL
>  error if they invoke the [sqlite3\_result\_subtype()](c3ref/result_subtype.html) interface but
>  where not registered with the [SQLITE\_RESULT\_SUBTYPE](c3ref/c_deterministic.html#sqliteresultsubtype) property.
>  This recommended option helps to identify problems in the
>  implementation of application\-defined SQL functions early in the
>  development cycle.


**SQLITE\_USE\_ALLOCA**


> If this option is enabled, then the alloca() memory allocator will be
>  used in a few situations where it is appropriate. This results in a slightly
>  smaller and faster binary. The SQLITE\_USE\_ALLOCA compile\-time only
>  works, of course, on systems that support alloca().


**SQLITE\_USE\_FCNTL\_TRACE**


> This option causes SQLite to issue extra [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_TRACE](c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntltrace) file controls
>  to provide supplementary information to the VFS. The "vfslog.c" extension
>  makes use of this to provide enhanced logs of VFS activity.


**SQLITE\_USE\_SEH**


> This option enabled Structured Exception Handling (SEH) on Windows builds.
>  SEH is a Windows\-specific technique for catching exceptions raised while
>  accessing a memory\-mapped file. SEH is used to intercept errors that might
>  occur while accessing the memory\-mapped [shm file](walformat.html#shm) that are part of
>  [WAL mode](wal.html) processing. If the operating system raised errors while SQLite
>  is trying to access the shm file, this option causes those errors to be
>  caught and dealt with by SQLite, rather than aborting the whole process.
>  
>  This option only works when compiling on Windows using MSVC.


**SQLITE\_HAVE\_ZLIB**


> This option causes some extensions to link against the
>  [zlib compression library](https://zlib.net).
>  
>  This option has no effect on the SQLite core. It is only used by extensions.
>  This is option is necessary for the compression and decompression
>  functions that are part of [SQL Archive](sqlar.html) support in the
>  [command\-line shell](cli.html).
>  
>  When compiling with this option, it will normally
>  be necessary to add a linker option to include the zlib library in the
>  build. Normal this option is "\-lz" but might be different on different
>  systems.
>  
>  When building with MSVC on Windows systems, one can put the zlib source
>  code in the compat/zlib subdirectory of the source tree and then add
>  the USE\_ZLIB\=1 option to the nmake command to cause the Makefile.msc
>  to automatically build and use an appropriate zlib library implementation.


**YYTRACKMAXSTACKDEPTH**


> This option causes the LALR(1\) parser stack depth to be tracked
>  and reported using the [sqlite3\_status](c3ref/status.html)([SQLITE\_STATUS\_PARSER\_STACK](c3ref/c_status_malloc_count.html#sqlitestatusparserstack),...)
>  interface. SQLite's LALR(1\) parser has a fixed stack depth
>  (determined at compile\-time using the [YYSTACKDEPTH](compile.html#yystackdepth) options).
>  This option can be used to help determine if an application is
>  getting close to exceeding the maximum LALR(1\) stack depth.



