# 8\.  Options To Disable Features Normally Turned On



**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_LFS**


> If this C\-preprocessor macro is defined, large file support
>  is disabled.


**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_DIRSYNC**


> If this C\-preprocessor macro is defined, directory syncs
>  are disabled. SQLite typically attempts to sync the parent
>  directory when a file is deleted to ensure the directory
>  entries are updated immediately on disk.


**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_FTS3\_UNICODE**


> If this C\-preprocessor macro is defined, the [unicode61](fts3.html#unicode61) tokenizer
>  in [FTS3](fts3.html) is omitted from the build and is unavailable to
>  applications.


**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_FTS4\_DEFERRED**


> If this C\-preprocessor macro disables the "deferred token" optimization
>  in [FTS4](fts3.html#fts4). The "deferred token" optimization avoids loading massive
>  posting lists for terms that are in most documents of the collection
>  and instead simply scans for those tokens in the document source. [FTS4](fts3.html#fts4)
>  should get exactly the same answer both with and without this optimization.


**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_INTRINSIC**


> This option disables the use of compiler\-specific built\-in functions
>  such as \_\_builtin\_bswap32() and \_\_builtin\_add\_overflow() in GCC and Clang,
>  or \_byteswap\_ulong() and \_ReadWriteBarrier() with MSVC.


**SQLITE\_DISABLE\_PAGECACHE\_OVERFLOW\_STATS**


> This option disables the collection of the [sqlite3\_status()](c3ref/status.html)
> [SQLITE\_STATUS\_PAGECACHE\_OVERFLOW](c3ref/c_status_malloc_count.html#sqlitestatuspagecacheoverflow) and [SQLITE\_STATUS\_PAGECACHE\_SIZE](c3ref/c_status_malloc_count.html#sqlitestatuspagecachesize)
>  statistics. Setting this option has been shown to increase performance in
>  high concurrency multi\-threaded applications.



