## SQLite Release 3\.37\.1 On 2021\-12\-30

**Prior changes from version 3\.37\.0 (2021\-11\-27\):**


1. [STRICT tables](../stricttables.html) provide a prescriptive style of data type management,
 for developers who prefer that kind of thing.
- When adding columns that contain a
 [CHECK constraint](../lang_createtable.html#ckconst) or a [generated column](../gencol.html) containing a [NOT NULL constraint](../lang_createtable.html#notnullconst),
 the [ALTER TABLE ADD COLUMN](../lang_altertable.html#altertabaddcol) now checks new constraints against
 preexisting rows in the database and will only proceed if no constraints
 are violated.
- Added the [PRAGMA table\_list](../pragma.html#pragma_table_list) statement.
- [CLI](../cli.html) enhancements:
	1. Add the [.connection](../cli.html#dotconn) command, allowing the CLI to keep multiple database
	 connections open at the same time.
	 - Add the [\-\-safe command\-line option](../cli.html#safemode) that disables
	 [dot\-commands](../cli.html#dotcmd) and SQL statements that might cause side\-effects that extend
	 beyond the single database file named on the command\-line.
	 - Performance improvements when reading SQL statements
	 that span many lines.- Added the [sqlite3\_autovacuum\_pages()](../c3ref/autovacuum_pages.html) interface.
- The [sqlite3\_deserialize()](../c3ref/deserialize.html) does not and has never worked for the TEMP
 database. That limitation is now noted in the documentation.
- The query planner now omits ORDER BY clauses on subqueries and views
 if removing those clauses does not change the semantics of the query.
- The [generate\_series](../series.html) table\-valued function extension is modified so that
 the first parameter ("START") is now required. This is done as a way to
 demonstrate how to write table\-valued functions with required parameters.
 The legacy behavior is available using the \-DZERO\_ARGUMENT\_GENERATE\_SERIES
 compile\-time option.
- Added new [sqlite3\_changes64()](../c3ref/changes.html) and [sqlite3\_total\_changes64()](../c3ref/total_changes.html) interfaces.
- Added the [SQLITE\_OPEN\_EXRESCODE](../c3ref/c_open_autoproxy.html) flag option to [sqlite3\_open\_v2()](../c3ref/open.html).
- Use less memory to hold the database schema.


**Changes in this specific patch release, version 3\.37\.1 (2021\-12\-30\):**


1. Fix a bug introduced by the [UPSERT](../lang_upsert.html) enhancements of [version 3\.35\.0](../releaselog/3_35_0.html) that
 can cause incorrect byte\-code to be generated for some obscure but valid
 SQL, possibly resulting in a NULL\-pointer dereference.
- Fix an OOB read that can occur in [FTS5](../fts5.html) when reading corrupt database files.
- Improved robustness of the \-\-safe option in the [CLI](../cli.html).
- Other minor fixes to assert() statements and test cases.

**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2021\-12\-30 15:30:28 378629bf2ea546f73eee84063c5358439a12f7300e433f18c9e1bddd948dea62
- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: 915afb3f29c2d217ea0c283326a9df7d505e6c73b40236f0b33ded91f812d174



A [complete list of SQLite releases](../changes.html)
 in a single page and a [chronology](../chronology.html) are both also available.
 A detailed history of every
 check\-in is available at
 [SQLite version control site](https://www.sqlite.org/src/timeline).




