### 1\.1 Overview Of Incompatible Changes


1. Changes to the [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html) object


	1. The signature of the xAccess method has been modified to
	 return an [error code](rescode.html) and to store its output into an integer pointed
	 to by a parameter, rather than returning the output directly.
	 This change allows the xAccess() method to report failures.
	 In association with this signature change, a new 
	 extended error code [SQLITE\_IOERR\_ACCESS](rescode.html#ioerr_access) has been added.
	2. The xGetTempname method has been removed from [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html).
	 In its place, the xOpen method is enhanced to open a temporary file
	 of its own invention when the filename parameter is NULL.
	3. Added the xGetLastError() method to [sqlite3\_vfs](c3ref/vfs.html) for returning
	 filesystem\-specific error messages and error codes back to
	 SQLite.
2. The signature of the xCheckReservedLock method on [sqlite3\_io\_methods](c3ref/io_methods.html)
 has been modified so that it returns an [error code](rescode.html) and stores its
 boolean result into an integer pointed to by a parameter. In
 association with this change, a new extended error code
 [SQLITE\_IOERR\_CHECKRESERVEDLOCK](rescode.html#ioerr_checkreservedlock) has been added.
3. When SQLite is ported to new operating systems (operating systems 
 other than Unix, Windows, and OS/2 for which ports are provided together
 with the core)
 two new functions, [sqlite3\_os\_init()](c3ref/initialize.html) and [sqlite3\_os\_end()](c3ref/initialize.html), must
 be provided as part of the port.
4. The way in which the IN and NOT IN operators handle NULL values
 in their right\-hand expressions has been brought into compliance with
 the SQL standard and with other SQL database engines.
5. The column names for the result sets of [SELECT](lang_select.html) statements have
 been tweaked in some cases to work more like other SQL database
 engines.
6. Changes to compile\-time options:


	1. The SQLITE\_MUTEX\_APPDEF compile\-time parameter is no longer
	 recognized. As a replacement, alternative 
	 [mutex implementations](c3ref/mutex_alloc.html) may be created
	 at runtime using [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html) with the [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_MUTEX](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigmutex)
	 operator and the [sqlite3\_mutex\_methods](c3ref/mutex_methods.html) object.
	2. Compile\-time options OS\_UNIX, OS\_WIN, OS\_OS2, OS\_OTHER, and
	 TEMP\_STORE have been renamed to include an "SQLITE\_" prefix in order
	 to help avoid namespace collisions with application software. The
	 new names of these options are respectively:
	 SQLITE\_OS\_UNIX, SQLITE\_OS\_WIN, SQLITE\_OS\_OS2, SQLITE\_OS\_OTHER,
	 and [SQLITE\_TEMP\_STORE](compile.html#temp_store).





