## 2\.0 Fully Backwards\-Compatible Enhancements


 In addition to the incompatible changes listed above, SQLite
 version 3\.6\.0 adds the following backwards compatible changes and
 enhancements:




1. The new [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html) interface allows an application
 to customize the behavior of SQLite at run\-time. Customizations possible
 using [sqlite3\_config()](c3ref/config.html) include the following:


	1. Specify an alternative mutex implementation using the
	 [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_MUTEX](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigmutex) verb with the [sqlite3\_mutex\_methods](c3ref/mutex_methods.html) object.
	2. Specify an alternative malloc implementation using the
	 [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_MALLOC](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigmalloc) verb with the [sqlite3\_mem\_methods](c3ref/mem_methods.html) object.
	3. Partially or fully disable the use of mutexes using
	 [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_SINGLETHREAD](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigsinglethread), [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_MULTITHREAD](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigmultithread) and
	 [SQLITE\_CONFIG\_SERIALIZED](c3ref/c_config_covering_index_scan.html#sqliteconfigserialized).
2. A new flag [SQLITE\_OPEN\_NOMUTEX](c3ref/c_open_autoproxy.html) is made available to the
 [sqlite3\_open\_v2()](c3ref/open.html) interface.
3. The new [sqlite3\_status()](c3ref/status.html) interface allows an application to query
 the performance status of SQLite at runtime.
4. The [sqlite3\_memory\_used()](c3ref/memory_highwater.html) and [sqlite3\_memory\_highwater()](c3ref/memory_highwater.html)
 interfaces are deprecated. The equivalent functionality is now available
 through [sqlite3\_status()](c3ref/status.html).
5. The [sqlite3\_initialize()](c3ref/initialize.html) interface can be called to explicitly
 initialize the SQLite subsystem. The [sqlite3\_initialize()](c3ref/initialize.html) interface is
 called automatically when invoking certain interfaces so the use of
 [sqlite3\_initialize()](c3ref/initialize.html) is not required, but it is recommended.
6. The [sqlite3\_shutdown()](c3ref/initialize.html) interface causes SQLite to release any
 system resources (memory allocations, mutexes, open file handles)
 that might have been allocated by [sqlite3\_initialize()](c3ref/initialize.html).
7. The [sqlite3\_next\_stmt()](c3ref/next_stmt.html) interface allows an application to discover
 all [prepared statements](c3ref/stmt.html) associated with a [database connection](c3ref/sqlite3.html).
8. Added the [page\_count](pragma.html#pragma_page_count) PRAGMA for returning the size of the underlying
 database file in pages.
9. Added a new [R\*Tree index extension](rtree.html).





*This page last modified on [2022\-01\-08 05:02:57](https://sqlite.org/docsrc/honeypot) UTC* 


