## 6\.0 Representations And Warranties
6\.1 Intellectual Property Clearances.
Hwaci hereby represents and warrants that Hwaci shall 
enter into agreements with the SQLite Developers sufficient 
to enable Hwaci to undertake the obligations of Section 5\.
6\.2 Disclaimer.
THE WORK PRODUCT AND ALL MATERIAL PROVIDED BY HWACI AND 
COMPANY ARE PROVIDED "AS IS." NEITHER PARTY MAKES ANY 
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER ORAL
OR WRITTEN, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY STATUTE, 
CUSTOM, COURSE OF DEALING OR TRADE USAGE, WITH RESPECT TO 
THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. 
EACH PARTY SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON\-INFRINGEMENT.
7\.0 Term And Termination
7\.1 Term.
This Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and 
will continue until 12 months after the Effective Date.
Thereafter, the parties may by mutual consent renew 
this Agreement subject to agreement on fees to be paid by 
Company for sponsorship for additional periods.
7\.2 Termination.
If either party materially defaults in the performance 
of any of its material obligations hereunder and if any 
such default is not corrected within 30 days after notice 
in writing, then the non\-defaulting party, at its option, 
may, in addition to any other remedies it may have, thereupon 
terminate this Agreement by giving written notice of 
termination to the defaulting party.
7\.3 Survival.
Upon such termination all rights and duties of the
parties toward each other will cease except: 
Sections 4 (Confidentiality), 5 (Intellectual Property), 
and 8 (Miscellaneous) will survive termination of this Agreement.
8\. Miscellaneous
8\.1 Nonassignment/Binding Agreement.
The parties acknowledge that the unique nature of 
Hwaci's services are substantial consideration for the 
parties' entering into this Agreement. Neither this 
Agreement nor any rights under this Agreement may be 
assigned or otherwise transferred by Hwaci, in whole 
or in part, whether voluntarily or by operation of law, 
without the prior written consent of Company, which 
consent will not be unreasonably withheld. 
Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will be binding
upon and will inure to the benefit of the parties and
their respective successors and assigns. Any assignment 
in violation of the foregoing will be null and void.
8\.2 Notices.
Any notice required or permitted under the terms of 
this Agreement or required by law must be in writing 
and must be: (a) delivered in person; (b) sent by first 
class registered mail, or air mail, as appropriate; or 
(c) sent by overnight air courier, in each case properly 
posted and fully prepaid to the appropriate address set 
forth in the preamble to this Agreement. Either party 
may change its address for notice by notice to the other 
party given in accordance with this Section. Notices 
will be considered to have been given at the time of
actual delivery in person, three business days after 
deposit in the mail as set forth above, or one day after 
delivery to an overnight air courier service.
8\.3 Waiver.
Any waiver of the provisions of this Agreement or 
of a party's rights or remedies under this Agreement 
must be in writing to be effective. Failure, neglect, 
or delay by a party to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement or its rights or remedies at any time, will
not be construed as a waiver of such party's rights 
under this Agreement and will not in any way affect 
the validity of the whole or any part of this Agreement 
or prejudice such party's right to take subsequent action. 
No exercise or enforcement by either party of any right
or remedy under this Agreement will preclude the 
enforcement by such party of any other right or remedy 
under this Agreement or that such party is entitled by 
law to enforce.
8\.4 Severability.
If any term, condition, or provision in this Agreement 
is found to be invalid, unlawful or unenforceable to 
any extent, the parties shall endeavor in good faith 
to agree to such amendments that will preserve, as far
as possible, the intentions expressed in this Agreement. 
If the parties fail to agree on such an amendment, 
such invalid term, condition or provision will be 
severed from the remaining terms, conditions and
provisions, which will continue to be valid and 
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
8\.5 Integration.
This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the 
parties with respect to the subject matter of this 
Agreement and supersedes all previous communications, 
representations, understandings and agreements, 
either oral or written, between the parties with 
respect to said subject matter. This Agreement 
may not be amended, except by a writing signed by both parties.
8\.6 Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, 
each of which so executed will be deemed to be an 
original and such counterparts together will constitute 
one and the same agreement.
8\.7 Governing Law.
This Agreement will be interpreted and construed in 
accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina
and the United States of America, without regard to
conflict of law principles. All disputes arising out 
of this Agreement will be subject to the exclusive 
jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in 
North Carolina, and each party hereby consents to the 
personal jurisdiction thereof.
8\.8 Independent Contractors.
It is the intention of the parties that Hwaci is an 
independent contractor. Nothing in this Agreement will 
in any way be construed to constitute Hwaci or any of 
its employees as an agent, employee or representative 
of Company.
9\.0 Signatures
The parties have executed this Agreement below to 
indicate their acceptance of its terms.


| HWACI By:  ---     Print Name:  ---     Title:  --- |  | COMPANY By:  ---     Print Name:  ---     Title:  --- |
| --- | --- | --- |

