## 3\.3\. Recognized Query Parameters



Some query parameters are interpreted by the SQLite core and used to
modify the characteristics of the new connection. All query parameters
are always passed through into the xOpen method of the [VFS](vfs.html) even if
they are previously read and interpreted by the SQLite core.




The following query parameters are recognized by SQLite as of
[version 3\.15\.0](releaselog/3_15_0.html) (2016\-10\-14\).
New query parameters might be added in the future.





**cache\=shared  
cache\=private**
The cache query parameter determines if the new database is opened
using [shared cache mode](sharedcache.html) or with a private cache.




**immutable\=1**
The immutable query parameter is a boolean that signals to
SQLite that the underlying database file is held on read\-only media
and cannot be modified, even by another process with elevated
privileges. SQLite always opens immutable database files
read\-only and it skips all file locking and change detection
on immutable database files. If this query parameter (or
the [SQLITE\_IOCAP\_IMMUTABLE](c3ref/c_iocap_atomic.html) bit in xDeviceCharacteristics)
asserts that a database file is immutable and that file
changes anyhow, then SQLite might return incorrect query
results and/or [SQLITE\_CORRUPT](rescode.html#corrupt) errors.




**mode\=ro  
mode\=rw  
mode\=rwc  
mode\=memory**
The mode query parameter determines if the new database is opened
read\-only, read\-write, read\-write and created if it does not exist, or
that the database is a pure in\-memory database that never interacts with
disk, respectively.




**modeof\=***filename*
When creating a new database file during [sqlite3\_open\_v2()](c3ref/open.html)
on unix systems, SQLite will try to set the permissions of the new
database file to match the existing file "*filename*".




**nolock\=1**
The nolock query parameter is a boolean that disables all calls
to the xLock, xUnlock, and xCheckReservedLock methods of the VFS when true.
The nolock query parameter might be used, for example, when trying to
access a file on a filesystem that does not support file locking.
Caution: If two or more [database connections](c3ref/sqlite3.html) try to interact with
the same SQLite database and one or more of those connections has
enabled "nolock", then database corruption can result. The "nolock"
query parameter should only be used if the application can guarantee
that writes to the database are serialized.




**psow\=0  
psow\=1**
The psow query parameter overrides the [powersafe overwrite](psow.html)
property of the database file being opened. The psow query parameter
works with the default windows and unix [VFSes](vfs.html) but might be a no\-op for
other proprietary or non\-standard VFSes.




**vfs\=***NAME*
The vfs query parameter causes the database connection to be opened
using the [VFS](vfs.html) called *NAME*.
The open attempt fails if *NAME* is not the name of a [VFS](vfs.html) that
is built into SQLite or that has been previously registered using
[sqlite3\_vfs\_register()](c3ref/vfs_find.html).



