# 1\. Getting Started


The SQLite project provides a simple command\-line program named
**sqlite3** (or **sqlite3\.exe** on Windows)
that allows the user to manually enter and execute SQL
statements against an SQLite database or against a
[ZIP archive](#zipdb). This document provides a brief
introduction on how to use the **sqlite3** program.



Start the **sqlite3** program by typing "sqlite3" at the
command prompt, optionally followed
by the name of the file that holds the SQLite database
(or [ZIP archive](#zipdb)). If the named
file does not exist, a new database file with the given name will be
created automatically. If no database file is specified on the
command\-line, a temporary database is created and automatically deleted when
the "sqlite3" program exits.



On startup, the **sqlite3** program will show a brief banner
message then prompt you to enter SQL. Type in SQL statements (terminated
by a semicolon), press "Enter" and the SQL will be executed.


For example, to create a new SQLite database named "ex1"
with a single table named "tbl1", you might do this:



```
$ sqlite3 ex1
SQLite version 3.36.0 2021-06-18 18:36:39
Enter ".help" for usage hints.
sqlite> create table tbl1(one text, two int);
sqlite> insert into tbl1 values('hello!',10);
sqlite> insert into tbl1 values('goodbye', 20);
sqlite> select * from tbl1;
hello!|10
goodbye|20
sqlite>

```

Terminate the sqlite3 program by typing your system
End\-Of\-File character (usually a Control\-D). Use the interrupt
character (usually a Control\-C) to stop a long\-running SQL statement.


Make sure you type a semicolon at the end of each SQL command!
The sqlite3 program looks for a semicolon to know when your SQL command is
complete. If you omit the semicolon, sqlite3 will give you a
continuation prompt and wait for you to enter more text to
complete the SQL command. This feature allows you to
enter SQL commands that span multiple lines. For example:



```
sqlite> CREATE TABLE tbl2 (
   ...>   f1 varchar(30) primary key,
   ...>   f2 text,
   ...>   f3 real
   ...> );
sqlite>

```


