# 7\. Opening Database Files


The ".open" command opens a new database connection, after first closing the
previously opened database command. In its simplest form, the ".open" command merely
invokes [sqlite3\_open()](c3ref/open.html) on the file named as its argument. Use the name ":memory:"
to open a new in\-memory database that disappears when the CLI exits or when the
".open" command is run again.
Or use no name to open a private, temporary on\-disk database which
will also disappear upon exit or use of ".open".



If the \-\-new option is included with ".open", then the database is reset prior
to being opened. Any prior data is destroyed. This is a destructive overwrite of
prior data and no confirmation is requested, so use this option carefully.



The \-\-readonly option opens the database in read\-only mode. Write will be
prohibited.



The \-\-deserialize option causes the entire content of the on\-disk file to be
read into memory and then opened as an in\-memory database using the
[sqlite3\_deserialize()](c3ref/deserialize.html) interface. This will, of course, require a lot of memory
if you have a large database. Also, any changes you make to the database will not
be saved back to disk unless you explicitly save them using the ".save" or ".backup"
commands.



The \-\-append option causes the SQLite database to be appended to an existing
file rather than working as a stand\-alone file. See the
[appendvfs extension](https://www.sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/appendvfs.c) for
more information.



The \-\-zip option causes the specified input file to be interpreted as a ZIP archive
instead of as an SQLite database file.



The \-\-hexdb option causes the database content to be to be read from subsequent
lines of input in a hex format, rather than from a separate file on disk.
The "dbtotxt" command\-line tool can be used to generate
the appropriate text for a database. The \-\-hexdb option is intended for use by the
SQLite developers for testing purposes. We do not know of any use cases for this
option outside of internal SQLite testing and development.



