## 8\.1\. Writing results to a file


By default, sqlite3 sends query results to standard output. You
can change this using the ".output" and ".once" commands. Just put
the name of an output file as an argument to .output and all subsequent
query results will be written to that file. Or use the .once command
instead of .output and output will only be redirected for the single next
command before reverting to the console. Use .output with no arguments to
begin writing to standard output again. For example:



```
sqlite> .mode list
sqlite> .separator |
sqlite> .output test_file_1.txt
sqlite> select * from tbl1;
sqlite> .exit
$ cat test_file_1.txt
hello|10
goodbye|20
$

```

If the first character of the ".output" or ".once" filename is a pipe
symbol ("\|") then the remaining characters are treated as a command and the
output is sent to that command. This makes it easy to pipe the results
of a query into some other process. For example, the
"open \-f" command on a Mac opens a text editor to display the content that
it reads from standard input. So to see the results of a query
in a text editor, one could type:



```
sqlite> .once | open -f
sqlite> SELECT * FROM bigTable;

```

If the ".output" or ".once" commands have an argument of "\-e" then
output is collected into a temporary file and the system text editor is
invoked on that text file. Thus, the command ".once \-e" achieves the
same result as ".once '\|open \-f'" but with the benefit of being portable
across all systems.



If the ".output" or ".once" commands have a "\-x" argument, that causes
them to accumulate output as Comma\-Separated\-Values (CSV) in a temporary
file, then invoke the default system utility for viewing CSV files
(usually a spreadsheet program) on the result. This is a quick way of
sending the result of a query to a spreadsheet for easy viewing:




```
sqlite> .once -x
sqlite> SELECT * FROM bigTable;

```


The ".excel" command is an alias for ".once \-x". It does exactly the same
thing.




