## 8\.5\. Importing files as CSV or other formats


Use the ".import" command to import CSV (comma separated value)
or similarly delimited data into an SQLite table.
The ".import" command takes two arguments which are the
source from which data is to be read and the name of the
SQLite table into which the data is to be inserted. The source argument
is the name of a file to be read or, if it begins with a "\|" character,
it specifies a command which will be run to produce the input data.



Note that it may be important to set the "mode" before running the
 ".import" command. This is prudent to prevent the command\-line shell
from trying to interpret the input file text as some format other than
how the file is structured. If the \-\-csv or \-\-ascii options are used,
they control import input delimiters. Otherwise, the delimiters are
those in effect for the current output mode.



To import into a table not in the "main" schema, the \-\-schema option
may be used to specify that the table is in some other schema. This can
be useful for ATTACH'ed databases or to import into a TEMP table.



When .import is run, its treatment of the first input row depends
upon whether the target table already exists. If it does not exist,
the table is automatically created and the content of the first input
row is used to set the name of all the columns in the table. In this
case, the table data content is taken from the second and subsequent
input rows. If the target table already exists, every row of the
input, including the first, is taken to be actual data content. If
the input file contains an initial row of column labels, you can make
the .import command skip that initial row using the "\-\-skip 1" option.



Here is an example usage, loading a pre\-existing temporary table
from a CSV file which has column names in its first row:




```
sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 --schema temp C:/work/somedata.csv tab1

```

While reading input data in modes other than 'ascii', ".import"
interprets input as records composed of fields according to the RFC 4180
specification with this exception: The input record and field separators
are as set by the mode or by use of the .separator command. Fields are
always subject to quote removal to reverse quoting done per RFC 4180,
except in ascii mode.



To import data with arbitrary delimiters and no quoting,
first set ascii mode (".mode ascii"), then set the field
and record delimiters using the ".separator" command. This
will suppress dequoting. Upon ".import", the data will be split
into fields and records according to the delimiters so specified.




