# 16\. SQL Parameters


SQLite allows [bound parameters](lang_expr.html#varparam) to appear in an SQL statement anywhere
that a literal value is allowed. The values for these parameters are set
using the [sqlite3\_bind\_...()](c3ref/bind_blob.html) family of APIs.



Parameters can be either named or unnamed. An unnamed parameter is a single
question mark ("?"). Named parameters are a "?" followed immediately by a number
(ex: "?15" or "?123") or one of the characters "$", ":", or "@" followed by an
alphanumeric name (ex: "$var1", ":xyz", "@bingo").



This command\-line shell leaves unnamed parameters unbound, meaning that they
will have a value of an SQL NULL, but named parameters might be assigned values.
If there exists a TEMP table named "sqlite\_parameters" with a schema like this:




```
CREATE TEMP TABLE sqlite_parameters(
  key TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
  value
) WITHOUT ROWID;

```

And if there is an entry in that table where the key column exactly matches
the name of parameter (including the initial "?", "$", ":", or "@" character)
then the parameter is assigned the value of the value column. If no entry exists,
the parameter defaults to NULL.



The ".parameter" command exists to simplify managing this table. The
".parameter init" command (often abbreviated as just ".param init") creates
the temp.sqlite\_parameters table if it does not already exist. The ".param list"
command shows all entries in the temp.sqlite\_parameters table. The ".param clear"
command drops the temp.sqlite\_parameters table. The ".param set KEY VALUE" and
".param unset KEY" commands create or delete entries from the
temp.sqlite\_parameters table.



The VALUE passed to ".param set KEY VALUE" can be either a SQL literal
or any other SQL expression or query which can be evaluated to yield a value.
This allows values of differing types to be set.
If such evaluation fails, the provided VALUE is instead quoted and inserted
as text.
Because such initial evaluation may or may not fail depending upon
the VALUE content, the reliable way to get a text value is to enclose it
with single\-quotes protected from the above\-described command\-tail parsing.
For example, (unless one intends a value of \-1365\):  




```
.parameter init
.parameter set @phoneNumber "'202-456-1111'"

```

Note that the double\-quotes serve to protect the single\-quotes
and ensure that the quoted text is parsed as one argument.



The temp.sqlite\_parameters table only provides values for parameters in the
command\-line shell. The temp.sqlite\_parameter table has no effect on queries
that are run directly using the SQLite C\-language API. Individual applications
are expected to implement their own parameter binding. You can search for
"sqlite\_parameters" in the
[command\-line shell source code](https://sqlite.org/src/file/src/shell.c.in)
to see how the command\-line shell does parameter binding, and use that as
a hint for how to implement it yourself.




