# 6\. Querying the database schema


The sqlite3 program provides several convenience commands that
are useful for looking at the schema of the database. There is
nothing that these commands do that cannot be done by some other
means. These commands are provided purely as a shortcut.



For example, to see a list of the tables in the database, you
can enter ".tables".



```
sqlite> .tables
tbl1 tbl2
sqlite>

```

The ".tables" command is similar to setting list mode then
executing the following query:



```
SELECT name FROM sqlite_schema
WHERE type IN ('table','view') AND name NOT LIKE 'sqlite_%'
ORDER BY 1

```

But the ".tables" command does more. It queries the [sqlite\_schema](schematab.html) table
for all [attached](lang_attach.html) databases, not just the primary database. And it arranges
its output into neat columns.



The ".indexes" command works in a similar way to list all of
the indexes. If the ".indexes" command is given an argument which is
the name of a table, then it shows just indexes on that table.




The ".schema" command shows the complete schema for the database,
or for a single table if an optional tablename argument is provided:




```
sqlite> .schema
create table tbl1(one varchar(10), two smallint)
CREATE TABLE tbl2 (
  f1 varchar(30) primary key,
  f2 text,
  f3 real
);
sqlite> .schema tbl2
CREATE TABLE tbl2 (
  f1 varchar(30) primary key,
  f2 text,
  f3 real
);
sqlite>

```

The ".schema" command is roughly the same as setting
list mode, then entering the following query:



```
SELECT sql FROM sqlite_schema
ORDER BY tbl_name, type DESC, name

```

As with ".tables", the ".schema" command shows the schema for
all [attached](lang_attach.html) databases. If you only want to see the schema for
a single database (perhaps "main") then you can add an argument
to ".schema" to restrict its output:




```
sqlite> .schema main.*

```

The ".schema" command can be augmented with the "\-\-indent" option,
in which case it tries to reformat the various CREATE statements of
the schema so that they are more easily readable by humans.




The ".databases" command shows a list of all databases open in
the current connection. There will always be at least 2\. The first
one is "main", the original database opened. The second is "temp",
the database used for temporary tables. There may be additional
databases listed for databases attached using the ATTACH statement.
The first output column is the name the database is attached with,
and the second result column is the filename of the external file.
There may be a third result column which will be either "'r/o'" or
"'r/w'" depending on whether the database file is read\-only or read\-write.
And there might be a fourth result column showing the result of
[sqlite3\_txn\_state()](c3ref/txn_state.html) for that database file.




```
sqlite> .databases

```


The ".fullschema" dot\-command works like the ".schema" command in
that it displays the entire database schema. But ".fullschema" also
includes dumps of the statistics tables "sqlite\_stat1", "sqlite\_stat3",
and "sqlite\_stat4", if they exist. The ".fullschema" command normally
provides all of the information needed to exactly recreate a query
plan for a specific query. When reporting suspected problems with
the SQLite query planner to the SQLite development team, developers
are requested to provide the complete ".fullschema" output as part
of the trouble report. Note that the sqlite\_stat3 and sqlite\_stat4
tables contain samples of index entries and so might contain sensitive
data, so do not send the ".fullschema" output of a proprietary database
over a public channel.



