### 2012\-05\-14 (3\.7\.12\)

1. Add the [SQLITE\_DBSTATUS\_CACHE\_WRITE](c3ref/c_dbstatus_options.html#sqlitedbstatuscachewrite) option for [sqlite3\_db\_status()](c3ref/db_status.html).
- Optimize the [typeof()](lang_corefunc.html#typeof) and [length()](lang_corefunc.html#length) SQL functions so that they avoid
 unnecessary reading of database content from disk.
- Add the [FTS4 "merge" command](fts3.html#*fts4mergecmd), the [FTS4 "automerge" command](fts3.html#*fts4automergecmd), and
 the [FTS4 "integrity\-check" command](fts3.html#*fts4ickcmd).
- Report the name of specific [CHECK](lang_createtable.html#ckconst) constraints that fail.
- In the command\-line shell, use popen() instead of fopen() if the first
 character of the argument to the ".output" command is "\|".
- Make use of OVERLAPPED in the windows [VFS](vfs.html) to avoid some system calls
 and thereby obtain a performance improvement.
- More aggressive optimization of the AND operator when one side or the
 other is always false.
- Improved performance of queries with many OR\-connected terms in the
 WHERE clause that can all be indexed.
- Add the [SQLITE\_RTREE\_INT\_ONLY](compile.html#rtree_int_only) compile\-time option to force the
 [R\*Tree Extension Module](rtree.html) to use integer instead of
 floating point values for both storage and computation.
- Enhance the [PRAGMA integrity\_check](pragma.html#pragma_integrity_check) command to use much less memory when
 processing multi\-gigabyte databases.
- New interfaces added to the test\_quota.c add\-on module.
- Added the ".trace" dot\-command to the command\-line shell.
- Allow virtual table constructors to be invoked recursively.
- Improved optimization of ORDER BY clauses on compound queries.
- Improved optimization of aggregate subqueries contained within an
 aggregate query.
- Bug fix: Fix the [RELEASE](lang_savepoint.html) command so that it does not cancel pending
 queries. This repairs a problem introduced in 3\.7\.11\.
- Bug fix: Do not discard the DISTINCT as superfluous unless a subset of
 the result set is subject to a UNIQUE constraint *and* it none
 of the columns in that subset can be NULL.
 Ticket [385a5b56b9](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/385a5b56b9).
- Bug fix: Do not optimize away an ORDER BY clause that has the same terms
 as a UNIQUE index unless those terms are also NOT NULL.
 Ticket [2a5629202f](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/2a5629202f).
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID:
 "2012\-05\-14 01:41:23 8654aa9540fe9fd210899d83d17f3f407096c004"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: 57e2104a0f7b3f528e7f6b7a8e553e2357ccd2e1




