### 2022\-02\-22 (3\.38\.0\)

1. Added [the \-\> and \-\>\> operators](json1.html#jptr) for easier processing of JSON.
 The new operators are compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL.
- The JSON functions are now built\-ins. It is no longer necessary
 to use the [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_JSON1](compile.html#enable_json1) compile\-time option to enable JSON
 support. JSON is on by default. Disable the JSON interface using
 the new [\-DSQLITE\_OMIT\_JSON](compile.html#omit_json) compile\-time option.
- Enhancements to [date and time functions](lang_datefunc.html):
	1. Added the [unixepoch() function](lang_datefunc.html#uepch).
	 - Added the [auto modifier](lang_datefunc.html#automod) and the [julianday modifier](lang_datefunc.html#jdmod).- Rename the [printf() SQL function](lang_corefunc.html#printf) to [format()](lang_corefunc.html#format) for better
 compatibility. The original printf() name is retained as an alias
 for backwards compatibility.
- Added the [sqlite3\_error\_offset()](c3ref/errcode.html) interface, which can sometimes
 help to localize an SQL error to a specific character in the input
 SQL text, so that applications can provide better error messages.
- Enhanced the interface to [virtual tables](vtab.html) as follows:
	1. Added the [sqlite3\_vtab\_distinct()](c3ref/vtab_distinct.html) interface.
	 - Added the [sqlite3\_vtab\_rhs\_value()](c3ref/vtab_rhs_value.html) interface.
	 - Added new operator types [SQLITE\_INDEX\_CONSTRAINT\_LIMIT](c3ref/c_index_constraint_eq.html)
	 and [SQLITE\_INDEX\_CONSTRAINT\_OFFSET](c3ref/c_index_constraint_eq.html).
	 - Added the [sqlite3\_vtab\_in()](c3ref/vtab_in.html) interface (and related) to enable
	 a virtual table to process [IN operator](lang_expr.html#in_op) constraints all at once,
	 rather than processing each value of the right\-hand side of the
	 IN operator separately.- [CLI](cli.html) enhancements:
	1. [Columnar output modes](cli.html#clmnr) are enhanced to correctly handle tabs
	 and newlines embedded in text.
	 - Added options like "\-\-wrap N", "\-\-wordwrap on", and "\-\-quote"
	 to the [columnar output modes](cli.html#clmnr).
	 - Added the [.mode qbox](cli.html#qbox) alias.
	 - The [.import command](cli.html#csv) automatically disambiguates column names.
	 - Use the new [sqlite3\_error\_offset()](c3ref/errcode.html) interface to provide better
	 error messages.- Query planner enhancements:
	1. Use a Bloom filter to speed up large analytic queries.
	 - Use a balanced merge tree to evaluate UNION or UNION ALL
	 compound SELECT statements that have an ORDER BY clause.- The [ALTER TABLE](lang_altertable.html) statement is changed to silently ignores entries in the
 [sqlite\_schema table](schematab.html) that do not parse when [PRAGMA writable\_schema\=ON](pragma.html#pragma_writable_schema).
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: 2022\-02\-22 18:58:40 40fa792d359f84c3b9e9d6623743e1a59826274e221df1bde8f47086968a1bab

- SHA3\-256 for sqlite3\.c: a69af0a88d59271a2dd3c846a3e93cbd29e7c499864f6c0462a3b4160bee1762




