### 2017\-01\-02 (3\.16\.0\)

1. Uses 9% fewer CPU cycles. (See the [CPU performance measurement](cpu.html) report for
 details on how this performance increase was computed.)
- Added experimental support for [PRAGMA functions](pragma.html#pragfunc).
- Added the [SQLITE\_DBCONFIG\_NO\_CKPT\_ON\_CLOSE](c3ref/c_dbconfig_defensive.html#sqlitedbconfignockptonclose) option to [sqlite3\_db\_config()](c3ref/db_config.html).
- Enhance the [date and time functions](lang_datefunc.html) so that the 'unixepoch' modifier works
 for the full span of supported dates.
- Changed the default configuration of the [lookaside memory allocator](malloc.html#lookaside) from
 500 slots of 128 bytes each into 125 slots of 512 bytes each.
- Enhanced "WHERE x NOT NULL" [partial indexes](partialindex.html) so that they are usable if
 the "x" column appears in a LIKE or GLOB operator.
- Enhanced [sqlite3\_interrupt()](c3ref/interrupt.html) so that it interrupts [checkpoint](wal.html#ckpt) operations that
 are in process.
- Enhanced the [LIKE](lang_expr.html#like) and [GLOB](lang_expr.html#glob) matching algorithm to be faster
 for cases when the pattern contains multiple wildcards.
- Added the [SQLITE\_FCNTL\_WIN32\_GET\_HANDLE](c3ref/c_fcntl_begin_atomic_write.html#sqlitefcntlwin32gethandle) file control opcode.
- Added ".mode quote" to the [command\-line shell](cli.html).
- Added ".lint fkey\-indexes" to the [command\-line shell](cli.html).
- Added the [.imposter dot\-command](imposter.html#dotimposter) to the [command\-line shell](cli.html).
- Added the [remember(V,PTR)](https://www.sqlite.org/src/file/ext/misc/remember.c)
 SQL function as a [loadable extension](loadext.html).
- Rename the [SQLITE\_OMIT\_BUILTIN\_TEST](compile.html#omit_builtin_test) compile\-time option to
 [SQLITE\_UNTESTABLE](compile.html#untestable) to better reflect the implications of using it.
**Bug Fixes:**
- Fix a long\-standing bug in the query planner that caused incorrect results
 on a LEFT JOIN where the left\-hand table is a subquery and the join constraint
 is a bare column name coming from the left\-hand subquery. Ticket
 [2df0107b](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/2df0107b).
- Correctly handle the integer literal \-0x8000000000000000 in the query planner.
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2017\-01\-02 11:57:58 04ac0b75b1716541b2b97704f4809cb7ef19cccf"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: e2920fb885569d14197c9b7958e6f1db573ee669




