### 2016\-02\-15 (3\.11\.0\)

**General improvements:**
- Enhanced [WAL mode](wal.html) so that it works efficiently with transactions that are
 larger than the [cache\_size](pragma.html#pragma_cache_size).
- Added the [FTS5 detail option](fts5.html#the_detail_option).
- Added the "EXTRA" option to [PRAGMA synchronous](pragma.html#pragma_synchronous) that does a sync of the
 containing directory when a rollback journal is unlinked in DELETE mode,
 for better durability. The [SQLITE\_EXTRA\_DURABLE](compile.html#extra_durable) compile\-time option enables
 [PRAGMA synchronous\=EXTRA](pragma.html#pragma_synchronous) by default.
- Enhanced the [query planner](optoverview.html) so that it is able to use
 a [covering index](queryplanner.html#covidx) as part of the [OR optimization](optoverview.html#or_opt).
- Avoid recomputing [NOT NULL](lang_createtable.html#notnullconst) and [CHECK constraints](lang_createtable.html#ckconst) on unchanged
 columns in [UPDATE](lang_update.html) statement.
- Many micro\-optimizations, resulting in a library that is
 faster than the previous release.
**Enhancements to the [command\-line shell](cli.html):**
- By default, the shell is now in "auto\-explain" mode. The output of
 [EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html) commands is automatically formatted.
- Added the ".vfslist" [dot\-command](cli.html#dotcmd).
- The [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_EXPLAIN\_COMMENTS](compile.html#enable_explain_comments) compile\-time option is now turned
 on by default in the standard builds.
**Enhancements to the [TCL Interface](tclsqlite.html):**
- If a database connection is opened with the "\-uri 1" option, then
 [URI filenames](uri.html) are honored by the "backup" and "restore" commands.
- Added the "\-sourceid" option to the "sqlite3" command.
**Makefile improvements:**
- Improved pthreads detection in configure scripts.
- Add the ability to do MSVC Windows builds from the [amalgamation tarball](download.html).
**Bug fixes**
- Fix an issue with incorrect sharing of VDBE temporary registers between
 co\-routines that could cause incorrect query results in obscure cases. Ticket
 [d06a25c84454a](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/d06a25c84454a).
- Fix a problem in the [sqlite3\_result\_subtype()](c3ref/result_subtype.html) interface that could
 cause problems for the [json1](json1.html) extension under obscure circumstances.
 Fix for ticket
 [f45ac567eaa9f9](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/f45ac567eaa9f9).
- Escape control characters in JSON strings. Fix for ticket
 [ad2559db380abf8](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/ad2559db380abf8).
- Reenable the xCurrentTime and xGetLastError methods in the built\-in
 unix [VFSes](vfs.html) as long as [SQLITE\_OMIT\_DEPRECATED](compile.html#omit_deprecated) is not defined.
**Backwards Compatibility:**
- Because of continuing security concerns, the two\-argument version
 of the seldom\-used and little\-known [fts3\_tokenizer()](fts3.html#f3tknzr) function is
 disabled unless SQLite is compiled with the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_TOKENIZER](compile.html#enable_fts3_tokenizer).
**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2016\-02\-15 17:29:24 3d862f207e3adc00f78066799ac5a8c282430a5f"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: df01436c5fcfe72d1a95bc172158219796e1a90b






