### 2015\-07\-27 (3\.8\.11\)

1. Added the experimental [RBU](rbu.html) extension. Note that this extension is experimental
 and subject to change in incompatible ways.
- Added the experimental [FTS5](fts5.html) extension. Note that this extension is experimental
 and subject to change in incompatible ways.
- Added the [sqlite3\_value\_dup()](c3ref/value_dup.html) and [sqlite3\_value\_free()](c3ref/value_dup.html) interfaces.
- Enhance the [spellfix1](spellfix1.html) extension to support [ON CONFLICT](lang_conflict.html) clauses.
- The [IS operator](lang_expr.html#isisnot) is now able to drive indexes.
- Enhance the query planner to permit [automatic indexing](optoverview.html#autoindex) on FROM\-clause
 subqueries that are implemented by co\-routine.
- Disallow the use of "rowid" in [common table expressions](lang_with.html).
- Added the [PRAGMA cell\_size\_check](pragma.html#pragma_cell_size_check) command for better and earlier
 detection of database file corruption.
- Added the [matchinfo 'b' flag](fts3.html#matchinfo-b) to the [matchinfo()](fts3.html#matchinfo) function in [FTS3](fts3.html).
- Improved fuzz\-testing of database files, with fixes for problems found.
- Add the fuzzcheck test program and automatically run this program
 using both SQL and database test cases on "make test".
- Added the [SQLITE\_MUTEX\_STATIC\_VFS1](c3ref/c_mutex_fast.html) static mutex and use it in the
 Windows [VFS](vfs.html).
- The [sqlite3\_profile()](c3ref/profile.html) callback is invoked (by [sqlite3\_reset()](c3ref/reset.html) or
 [sqlite3\_finalize()](c3ref/finalize.html)) for statements that did not run to completion.
- Enhance the page cache so that it can preallocate a block of memory to
 use for the initial set page cache lines. Set the default preallocation
 to 100 pages. Yields about a 5% performance increase on common workloads.
- Miscellaneous micro\-optimizations result in 22\.3% more work for the same
 number of CPU cycles relative to the previous release.
 SQLite now runs twice as fast as [version 3\.8\.0](#version_3_8_0) and three times as
 fast as [version 3\.3\.9](#version_3_3_9).
 (Measured using
 [cachegrind](http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/cg-manual.html) on the
 [speedtest1\.c](https://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact/83f6b3318f7ee) workload on
 Ubuntu 14\.04 x64 with gcc 4\.8\.2 and \-Os. Your performance may vary.)
- Added the [sqlite3\_result\_zeroblob64()](c3ref/result_blob.html) and [sqlite3\_bind\_zeroblob64()](c3ref/bind_blob.html)
 interfaces.
**Important bug fixes:**
- Fix [CREATE TABLE AS](lang_createtable.html#createtabas) so that columns of type TEXT never end up
 holding an INT value. Ticket
 [f2ad7de056ab1dc9200](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/f2ad7de056ab1dc9200)- Fix [CREATE TABLE AS](lang_createtable.html#createtabas) so that it does not leave NULL entries in the
 [sqlite\_master table](schematab.html) if the SELECT statement on the right\-hand side
 aborts with an error. Ticket
 [873cae2b6e25b](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/873cae2b6e25b)- Fix the [skip\-scan optimization](optoverview.html#skipscan) so that it works correctly when
 the [OR optimization](optoverview.html#or_opt) is used on [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) tables. Ticket
 [8fd39115d8f46](https://www.sqlite.org/src/info/8fd39115d8f46)- Fix the [sqlite3\_memory\_used()](c3ref/memory_highwater.html) and [sqlite3\_memory\_highwater()](c3ref/memory_highwater.html) interfaces
 so that they actually do provide a 64\-bit answer.

**Hashes:**
- SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID: "2015\-07\-27 13:49:41 b8e92227a469de677a66da62e4361f099c0b79d0"
- SHA1 for sqlite3\.c: 719f6891abcd9c459b5460b191d731cd12a3643e




