## 1\.2\. The Historical Numbering System (Before 2015\-10\-14\)


This historical version numbering system used a two\-, three\-,
or four\-number version: W.X, W.X.Y, or W.X.Y.Z.
W was the file format: 1 or 2 or 3\.
X was the major version.
Y was the minor version.
Z was used only for patch releases to fix bugs.




There have been three historical file formats for SQLite.
SQLite 1\.0 through 1\.0\.32 used the
[gdbm](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdbm/gdbm.html) library as its storage
engine.
SQLite 2\.0\.0 through 2\.8\.17 used a custom b\-tree storage engine that
supported only text keys and data.
All modern versions of SQLite (3\.0\.0 to present) use a b\-tree storage
engine that has full support for binary data and Unicode.




This major version number X was historically incremented only for
large and important changes to the code. What constituted "large
and important" was subjective. The 3\.6\.23 to 3\.7\.0 change
was a result of adding support for [WAL mode](wal.html).
The 3\.7\.17 to 3\.8\.0 change was a result of rewrite known as the
[next generation query planner](queryplanner-ng.html).




The minor version number Y was historically incremented for new
features and/or new interfaces that did not significantly change
the structure of the code. The addition of [common table expressions](lang_with.html),
[partial indexes](partialindex.html), and [indexes on expressions](expridx.html) are all examples of
"minor" changes. Again, the distinction between "major" and "minor"
is subjective.




The patch level Z was historically only used for bug\-fix releases
that changed only a small number of code lines.



