## 1\.1\. SQLite Is Different From Most Other SQL Databases



There are many SQL\-based database management systems available, besides
SQLite. Common options include MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL\-Server.
All these systems use the SQL langauge to communicate with the 
application, just like SQLite. But these other systems different
from SQLite in important respects.



1. SQLite is a [serverless](serverless.html) software library, whereas the other
systems are client\-server based. With MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL\-Server,
and others, the application sends a message containing some SQL
over to a separate server thread or process. That separate
thread or process performs the requested I/O, then send the results
back to the application. But there is no separate thread or
process with SQLite. SQLite runs in the same address space as
the application, using the same program counter and heap storage.
SQLite does no interprocess communication (IPC). When an application
sends an SQL statement into SQLite (by invoking a the appropriate
SQLite library subroutine), SQLite interprets the SQL
in the same thread as the caller. When an SQLite API routine
returns, it does not leave behind any background tasks that
run separately from the application.
2. An SQLite database is a single ordinary file on disk
(with a [well\-defined file format](fileformat2.html)). With other
systems, a "database" is usually a large number of separate
files hidden away in obscure directories of the filesystem, or
even spread across multiple machines. But with SQLite, a
complete database is just an ordinary disk file.


