## 2\.1\. Programming Language Processing Steps



All programming languages are processed in two steps:



1. Translate the program source text into an executable format.
2. Run the executable generated in the previous step in order to
carry out the desired action.



All programming languages uses those two basic steps.
The main difference is in the executable format.




"Compiled" languages like C\+\+ and Rust translate
the source text into machine code that can be directly executed
by the underlying hardware. There exist SQL database systems
that do the same with SQL \- they translate each SQL statement
directly into machine code. But that approach is uncommon and
is not the approach taken by SQLite.




Other languages like Java, Perl, Python, and TCL
typically translate the program source text into bytecode.
This bytecode is then run through an interpreter that
reads the bytecode and carries out the desired operations.
SQLite uses this bytecode approach. If you preceed
any SQL statement with the "[EXPLAIN](lang_explain.html)" keyword in SQLite,
it will show you the bytecode that is generated rather
than run the bytecode.




Another approach is to translate the program source text
into a tree of objects in memory. This tree is the "executable".
An interpret runs the executable by walking the tree.
This is the technique used by MySQL, PostgreSQL, and
SQL\-Server.




Of course, not every language fits neatly into one of the
above categories. This applies to both SQL database engines
and more familiar imperative programming languages. Javascript
is famous for using a hybrid execution model, where the code
is initially compiled into a tree of objects, but might be
further translating (using just\-in\-time compilation) down into
more efficient bytecode or machine code, as a means of boosting
performance.




The executable format really ends up being just an implementation
detail. The key point is that all languages have a compiler
step which translates programs into an executable format and
a run step that executes the compiled program.




