## 2\.2\. The decimal.c Extension


The decimal extension provides arbitrary\-precision decimal arithmetic on
numbers stored as text strings. Because the numbers are stored to arbitrary
precision and as text, no approximations are needed. Computations can be
done exactly.



The decimal extension is not (currently) part of the SQLite [amalgamation](amalgamation.html).
However, it is included in the [CLI](cli.html).



There are three math functions available:






* decimal\_add(A,B)
* decimal\_sub(A,B)
* decimal\_mul(A,B)
* decimal\_pow2(N)


The first three functions respectively add, subtract, and multiply their arguments
and return a new text string that is the decimal representation of the result. The
argument is interpreted as text.
There is no division operator because decimal division often does not generate
a finite decimal result.



The decimal\_pow2(N) function returns 2\.0 raised to the N\-th power where N is an
integer between \-20000 and \+20000\.



Use the decimal\_cmp(A,B) to compare two decimal values. The result will
be negative, zero, or positive if A is less than, equal to, or greater than B,
respectively.



The decimal\_sum(X) function is an aggregate, like the built\-in
[sum() aggregate function](lang_aggfunc.html#sumunc), except that decimal\_sum() computes its result
to arbitrary precision and is therefore precise.



The decimal extension provides the "decimal" collating sequences
that compares decimal text strings in numeric order.



The decimal(X) and decimal\_exp(X) generate a decimal representation for input X.
The decimal\_exp(X) function returns the result in exponential notation (with a "e\+NN"
at the end) and decimal(X) returns a pure decimal (without the "e\+NN"). If the input
X is a floating point value, it is expanded to its exact decimal equivalent. For
example:




```
sqlite> .mode qbox
sqlite> select decimal(47.49);
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    decimal(47.49)                    │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ '47.49000000000000198951966012828052043914794921875' │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

```

