# 1\. Executive Summary


* CVEs about SQLite probably do not apply to your use of SQLite.
* All historical vulnerabilities reported against SQLite require at least
one of these preconditions:



	1. The attacker can submit and run arbitrary SQL statements.
	2. The attacker can submit a maliciously crafted database file to the
	application that the application will then open and query.
* Few real\-world applications meet either of these preconditions, and hence
few real\-world applications are vulnerable, even if they use older
and unpatched versions of SQLite.
* The SQLite development team fixes bugs promptly,
usually within hours of discovery. New releases of SQLite
are issued if the bug seems likely to impact real\-world
applications.
* Grey\-hat hackers are rewarded based on the number and severity of 
CVEs that they write. This results in a proliferation of CVEs that
have minor impact, or no impact at all, but which make
exaggerated impact claims.
* Very few CVEs written about SQLite are real vulnerabilities in the 
sense that they do not give any new capabilities to an attacker.
Consider:



	1. Almost all CVEs written against SQLite require the ability to
	 inject and run arbitrary SQL.
	2. The advertised consequence of most CVEs is "denial of service",
	 typically by causing a crash through a NULL pointer dereference or
	 a division by zero, or similar.
	3. But if an attacker can already run
	 arbitrary SQL, they do not need a bug to cause a denial of service.
	 There are plenty of perfectly legal and valid SQL statements
	 that will consume unlimited CPU, memory, and disk I/O in order
	 to create a denial\-of\-service without requiring help from bugs.
	4. Hence, the mere fact that an attacker has a way to inject and run
	 arbitrary SQL is in and of itself a denial\-of\-service attack. That
	 the arbitrary SQL might also tickle a bug in SQLite and cause a
	 crash is not a new vulnerability.
* The SQLite developers do not write CVEs. Any CVEs you find on
SQLite are generated by third\-parties, often without any input from the
core developers. A common scenario is that someone will report a bug in
SQLite, which will promptly be fixed, then weeks later a CVE for that bug will
appear, unbeknownst to the developers.
* You should not assume that a CVE about
SQLite contains authoritative information.
CVEs often contain inaccuracies.
The SQLite developers have attempted to add clarifications and
corrections to CVEs about SQLite.


