# 2\. About CVEs


CVEs ("Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures") are reports of software
bugs that might allow a system to be hacked. The idea
behind CVEs is sound. They provide a common naming scheme whereby 
software bugs that might compromise information security can be easily
tracked.



While the original idea being CVEs is sound, the current processes for
creating and managing CVEs are inadequate. There are countless grey\-hat
hackers running fuzzers against a wide\-variety of open\-source software
products (SQLite as well as many others) and writing up CVEs against
any problems they find. The grey\-hats are rewarded, sometimes with
prestige and sometimes financially, by the number and severity of
the CVEs they write. This incentive results in a proliferation
of CVEs which are often not well\-vetted and which can have exaggerated
impact claims. The quality\-control procedures for CVEs are unable
to cope with this flood of inputs, making it difficult to correct
exaggerated, misleading, omitted, or inaccurate claims.



This is not to say that CVEs are useless. CVEs do still (mostly)
report actual bugs. But in most cases the bugs are not true vulnerabilities,
in the sense that they do not contribute to data loss or compromise
in and of themselves.
It is good that bugs are reported and fixed. But not every bug is
accessible from every application. In the case of SQLite, most of the
bugs reported by CVEs are inaccessible in most applications. Upgrading
to the latest version of SQLite is always a good plan, but it need not
be an emergency just because an anonymous grey\-hat on the internet
wrote up a CVE.



