## 3\.3\.  Installing The SQLite Baseline In Fossil


The repository created in the previous step is initially empty. The
next step is to load the baseline SQLite release \- circle (1\) in the diagram
above.


Begin by obtaining a copy of SQLite in whatever form you use it.
The public SQLite you obtain should be as close to your private edited
copy as possible. If your project uses the SQLite amalgamation, then
get a copy of the amalgamation. If you use the preprocessed separate
source files, get those instead. Put all the source files in the
checkout directory created in the previous step.


The source code in public SQLite releases uses unix line endings
(ASCII code 10: "newline" only, NL) and spaces instead of tabs. If you will
be changing the line ending to windows\-style line endings
(ASCII codes 13, 10: "carriage\-return" and "newline"; CR\-NL) or if you will be
changing space indents into tab indents, **make that change now**
before you check in the baseline. The merging process will only work
well if the differences between the public and the private branches are
minimal. If every single line of the source file is changed in the
private branch because you changed from NL to CR\-NL line endings, then
the merge steps will not work correctly.


Let us assume that you are using the amalgamation source code.
Add the baseline to your project as follows:



> ```
> 
> fossil add sqlite3.c sqlite3.h
> 
> ```


If you are using separate source files, name all of the source files instead
of just the two amalgamation source files. Once this is done, commit your
changes as follows:



> ```
> 
> fossil commit
> 
> ```


You will be prompted for a check\-in comment. Say whatever you like.
After the commit completes, your baseline will be part of the repository.
The following command, if you like, to see this on the "timeline":




> ```
> 
> fossil ui
> 
> ```


That last command is the same "ui" command that we ran before. It
starts a mini\-webserver running and points your web browser at it. But
this time we didn't have to specify the repository file because we are
located inside a checkout and so fossil can figure out the repository for
itself. If you want to type in the repository filename as the second
argument, you can. But it is optional.


If you do not want to use your web browser to view the new check\-in,
you can get some information from the command\-line using commands like
these:




> ```
> 
> fossil timeline
> fossil info
> fossil status
> 
> ```


