# 2\. The CREATE TABLE command


The "CREATE TABLE" command is used to create a new table in an SQLite 
database. A CREATE TABLE command specifies the following attributes of the
new table:



* The name of the new table.
* The database in which the new table is created. Tables may be 
 created in the main database, the temp database, or in any attached
 database.
* The name of each column in the table.
* The declared type of each column in the table.
* A default value or expression for each column in the table.
* A default collation sequence to use with each column.
* Optionally, a PRIMARY KEY for the table. Both single column and
 composite (multiple column) primary keys are supported.
* A set of SQL constraints for each table. SQLite supports UNIQUE, NOT
 NULL, CHECK and FOREIGN KEY constraints.
* Optionally, a [generated column](gencol.html) constraint.
* Whether the table is a [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) table.
* Whether the table is subject to [strict type checking](stricttables.html).


Every CREATE TABLE statement must specify a name for the new table.
 Table names that begin with "sqlite\_" are reserved for internal use. It
 is an error to attempt to create a table with a name that starts with
 "sqlite\_".



 If a schema\-name is specified, it must be either "main", 
 "temp", or the name of an [attached database](lang_attach.html). In this case
 the new table is created in the named database. If the "TEMP" or "TEMPORARY"
 keyword occurs between the "CREATE" and "TABLE" then the new table is
 created in the temp database. It is an error to specify both a 
 schema\-name and the TEMP or TEMPORARY keyword, unless the
 schema\-name is "temp". 
 If no schema name is specified and the
 TEMP keyword is not present then the table is created in the main
 database.




 It is usually an error to attempt to create a new table in a database that
 already contains a table, index or view of the same name. However, if the
 "IF NOT EXISTS" clause is specified as part of the CREATE TABLE statement and
 a table or view of the same name already exists, the CREATE TABLE command
 simply has no effect (and no error message is returned). An error is still
 returned if the table cannot be created because of an existing index, even 
 if the "IF NOT EXISTS" clause is specified.



It is not an error to create a table that has the same name as an 
 existing [trigger](lang_createtrigger.html).



Tables are removed using the [DROP TABLE](lang_droptable.html) statement. 



