## 3\.2\. The DEFAULT clause


The DEFAULT clause specifies a default value to use for the column if no
value is explicitly provided by the user when doing an [INSERT](lang_insert.html). If there
is no explicit DEFAULT clause attached to a column definition, then the 
default value of the column is NULL. An explicit DEFAULT clause may specify
that the default value is NULL, a string constant, a blob constant, a
signed\-number, or any constant expression enclosed in parentheses. A
default value may also be one of the special case\-independent keywords
CURRENT\_TIME, CURRENT\_DATE or CURRENT\_TIMESTAMP. For the purposes of the
DEFAULT clause, an expression is considered constant if it
contains no sub\-queries, column or table references, [bound parameters](lang_expr.html#varparam),
or string literals enclosed in double\-quotes instead of single\-quotes.



Each time a row is inserted into the table by an INSERT statement that 
does not provide explicit values for all table columns the values stored in
the new row are determined by their default values, as follows:



* If the default value of the column is a constant NULL, text, blob or
 signed\-number value, then that value is used directly in the new row.
* If the default value of a column is an expression in parentheses, then
 the expression is evaluated once for each row inserted and the results
 used in the new row.
* If the default value of a column is CURRENT\_TIME, CURRENT\_DATE or
 CURRENT\_TIMESTAMP, then the value used in the new row is a text
 representation of the current UTC date and/or time. For CURRENT\_TIME, the
 format of the value is "HH:MM:SS". For CURRENT\_DATE, "YYYY\-MM\-DD". The
 format for CURRENT\_TIMESTAMP is "YYYY\-MM\-DD HH:MM:SS".



