## 3\.5\. The PRIMARY KEY


Each table in SQLite may have at most one PRIMARY KEY. If the
 keywords PRIMARY KEY are added to a column definition, then the primary key
 for the table consists of that single column. Or, if a PRIMARY KEY clause 
 is specified as a [table\-constraint](syntax/table-constraint.html), then the primary key of the table
 consists of the list of columns specified as part of the PRIMARY KEY clause.
 The PRIMARY KEY clause must contain only column names — the use of 
 expressions in an [indexed\-column](syntax/indexed-column.html) of a PRIMARY KEY is not supported.
 An error is raised if more than one PRIMARY KEY clause appears in a
 CREATE TABLE statement. The PRIMARY KEY is optional for ordinary tables
 but is required for [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) tables.



If a table has a single column primary key and the declared type of that
 column is "INTEGER" and the table is not a [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) table,
 then the column is known as an [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid).
 See [below](lang_createtable.html#rowid) for a description of the special properties and behaviors
 associated with an [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid).



Each row in a table with a primary key must have a unique combination
 of values in its primary key columns. For the purposes of determining
 the uniqueness of primary key values, NULL values are considered distinct from
 all other values, including other NULLs. If an [INSERT](lang_insert.html) or [UPDATE](lang_update.html)
 statement attempts to modify the table content so that two or more rows
 have identical primary key values, that is a constraint violation.



 According to the SQL standard, PRIMARY KEY should always imply NOT NULL.
 Unfortunately, due to a bug in some early versions, this is not the
 case in SQLite. Unless the column is an [INTEGER PRIMARY KEY](lang_createtable.html#rowid) or
 the table is a [WITHOUT ROWID](withoutrowid.html) table or a [STRICT](stricttables.html) table 
 or the column is declared NOT NULL,
 SQLite allows NULL values in a PRIMARY KEY column. SQLite could be fixed to
 conform to the standard, but doing so might break legacy applications.
 Hence, it has been decided to merely document the fact that SQLite
 allows NULLs in most PRIMARY KEY columns.




