## 9\.2\. Variable Length Integer (varint) Format



 Integer values stored as part of segment b\-tree nodes are encoded using the
 FTS varint format. This encoding is similar, but **not identical**, to
 the [SQLite varint format](fileformat2.html#varint).




 An encoded FTS varint consumes between one and ten bytes of space. The
 number of bytes required is determined by the sign and magnitude of the
 integer value encoded. More accurately, the number of bytes used to store
 the encoded integer depends on the position of the most significant set bit
 in the 64\-bit twos\-complement representation of the integer value. Negative
 values always have the most significant bit set (the sign bit), and so are
 always stored using the full ten bytes. Positive integer values may be
 stored using less space.




 The final byte of an encoded FTS varint has its most significant bit
 cleared. All preceding bytes have the most significant bit set. Data
 is stored in the remaining seven least significant bits of each byte.
 The first byte of the encoded representation contains the least significant
 seven bits of the encoded integer value. The second byte of the encoded
 representation, if it is present, contains the seven next least significant
 bits of the integer value, and so on. The following table contains examples
 of encoded integer values:





| Decimal | Hexadecimal | Encoded Representation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 43 | 0x000000000000002B | 0x2B |
| 200815 | 0x000000000003106F | 0xEF 0xA0 0x0C |
| \-1 | 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF | 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0x01 |


