## 1\.5\. Summary



 From the users point of view, FTS tables are similar to ordinary SQLite
 tables in many ways. Data may be added to, modified within and removed
 from FTS tables using the INSERT, UPDATE and DELETE commands just as
 it may be with ordinary tables. Similarly, the SELECT command may be used
 to query data. The following list summarizes the differences between FTS
 and ordinary tables:



1. As with all virtual table types, it is not possible to create indices or
 triggers attached to FTS tables. Nor is it possible to use the ALTER TABLE
 command to add extra columns to FTS tables (although it is possible to use
 ALTER TABLE to rename an FTS table).
2. Data\-types specified as part of the "CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE" statement
 used to create an FTS table are ignored completely. Instead of the
 normal rules for applying type [affinity](datatype3.html#affinity) to inserted values, all
 values inserted into FTS table columns (except the special rowid
 column) are converted to type TEXT before being stored.
3. FTS tables permit the special alias "docid" to be used to refer to the
 rowid column supported by all [virtual tables](vtab.html).
4. The [FTS MATCH](fts3.html#full_text_index_queries) operator is supported for queries based on the built\-in
 full\-text index.
5. The [FTS auxiliary functions](fts3.html#snippet), [snippet()](fts3.html#snippet), [offsets()](fts3.html#offsets), and [matchinfo()](fts3.html#matchinfo) are
 available to support full\-text queries.
6. Every FTS table has a [hidden column](vtab.html#hiddencol) with the
 same name as the table itself. The value contained in each row for the
 hidden column is a blob that is only useful as the left operand of a
 [MATCH](fts3.html#full_text_index_queries) operator, or as the left\-most argument to one
 of the [FTS auxiliary functions](fts3.html#snippet).



