# 2\. Compiling and Enabling FTS3 and FTS4



 Although FTS3 and FTS4 are included with the SQLite core source code, they are not
 enabled by default. To build SQLite with FTS functionality enabled, define
 the preprocessor macro [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3](compile.html#enable_fts3) when compiling. New applications
 should also define the [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3\_PARENTHESIS](compile.html#enable_fts3_parenthesis) macro to enable the
 [enhanced query syntax](fts3.html#_set_operations_using_the_enhanced_query_syntax) (see below). Usually, this is done by adding the
 following two switches to the compiler command line:




```
-DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS3
-DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS3_PARENTHESIS

```


 Note that enabling FTS3 also makes FTS4 available. There is not a separate
 SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS4 compile\-time option. A build of SQLite either supports
 both FTS3 and FTS4 or it supports neither.




 If using the amalgamation autoconf based build system, setting the CPPFLAGS
 environment variable while running the 'configure' script is an easy
 way to set these macros. For example, the following command:




```
CPPFLAGS="-DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS3 -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS3_PARENTHESIS" ./configure <configure options>

```


 where *\<configure options\>* are those options normally passed to
 the configure script, if any.




 Because FTS3 and FTS4 are virtual tables, The [SQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3](compile.html#enable_fts3) compile\-time option
 is incompatible with the [SQLITE\_OMIT\_VIRTUALTABLE](compile.html#omit_virtualtable) option.




 If a build of SQLite does not include the FTS modules, then any attempt to prepare an
 SQL statement to create an FTS3 or FTS4 table or to drop or access an existing
 FTS table in any way will fail. The error message returned will be similar
 to "no such module: ftsN" (where N is either 3 or 4\).




 If the C version of the [ICU library](https://icu.unicode.org)
 is available, then FTS may also be compiled with the SQLITE\_ENABLE\_ICU
 pre\-processor macro defined. Compiling with this macro enables an FTS
 [tokenizer](fts3.html#tokenizer) that uses the ICU library to split a document into terms
 (words) using the conventions for a specified language and locale.




```
-DSQLITE_ENABLE_ICU

```


