# 2\. The SQLite Amalgamation


The SQLite library consists of 111 files of C code
(as of [Version 3\.37\.0](releaselog/3_37_0.html) \- 2021\-11\-27\)
in the core with 22 additional files that
implement certain commonly used extensions.

Of the 133
main source files, about 75% are C code and about 25% are C header files.
Most of these are "source" files in the sense that they are stored
in the [SQLite version control system](https://www.sqlite.org/src)
and are edited manually in an ordinary text editor.
But some of the C\-language files are generated using scripts
or auxiliary programs. For example, the
[parse.y](https://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact?ci=trunk&filename=src/parse.y)
file contains an LALR(1\) grammar of the SQL language which is compiled,
by the [Lemon parser generator](lemon.html), to produce a parser contained in the file
"parse.c" accompanied by token identifiers in "parse.h".



The makefiles for SQLite have an "sqlite3\.c" target for building the
amalgamation, to contain all C code for the core SQLite library and the
[FTS3](fts3.html), [FTS5](fts5.html), [RTREE](rtree.html), [DBSTAT](dbstat.html), [JSON1](json1.html),
[RBU](rbu.html) and [SESSION](sessionintro.html)
extensions.
This file contains about 238K lines of code
(or 145K if you omit blank lines and comments) and is over 8\.4 megabytes
in size (as of 2021\-12\-29\).



Though the various extensions are included in the
"sqlite3\.c" amalgamation file, they are disabled using \#ifdef statements.
Activate the extensions using [compile\-time options](compile.html) like:



* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS3](compile.html#enable_fts3)
* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS5](compile.html#enable_fts5)
* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_RTREE](compile.html#enable_rtree)
* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_DBSTAT\_VTAB](compile.html#enable_dbstat_vtab)
* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_RBU](compile.html#enable_rbu)
* [\-DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_SESSION](compile.html#enable_session)


The amalgamation contains everything you need to integrate SQLite
into a larger project. Just copy the amalgamation into your source
directory and compile it along with the other C code files in your project.
(A [more detailed discussion](howtocompile.html) of the compilation process is
available.)
You may also want to make use of the "sqlite3\.h" header file that
defines the programming API for SQLite.
The sqlite3\.h header file is available separately.
The sqlite3\.h file is also contained within the amalgamation, in
the first few thousand lines. So if you have a copy of
sqlite3\.c but cannot seem to locate sqlite3\.h, you can always
regenerate the sqlite3\.h by copying and pasting from the amalgamation.


In addition to making SQLite easier to incorporate into other
projects, the amalgamation also makes it run faster. Many
compilers are able to do additional optimizations on code when
it is contained with in a single translation unit such as it
is in the amalgamation. We have measured performance improvements
of between 5 and 10% when we use the amalgamation to compile
SQLite rather than individual source files. The downside of this
is that the additional optimizations often take the form of
function inlining which tends to make the size of the resulting
binary image larger.



